Unilateral neglect is a disorder that, due to the variable
underlying damage from naturally occurring brain lesions, has long
been understood to be heterogeneous in terms of the degree of
damage and prognosis for recovery. More recently, research has
questioned the prevailing description of the disorder and expanded
disorder from a disorder of spatial orienting to a more
heterogeneous, complex of behavioural defects, implying a
plurality of impacted cognitive systems.  Here, an examination of
visual working memory and attention demonstrates severe deficits
in both, but a lack of consistency between the two.  An experiment
involving prism adaptation, a treatment long understood to improve
attention in neglect, failed to meaningfully improve severe
deficits in time perception and spatial working memory in
non-neglected space.  I postulate that these non-orienting
deficits are the result of damage to perceptual systems, and
examine the potential for saccadic adaptation, an analogue of
prism adaptation previously shown to induce some perceptual
change, as an alternative. Here, healthy individuals performed the
classic saccadic adaptation paradigm, combined with measures of
perceptual bias typically used in neglect research, but which can
identify small biases (pseudo neglect) in healthy individuals.
Additionally the paradigm was piloted with a patient exhibiting
severe neglect. The task was found to be ineffective with the
healthy population, and impractical in the case study, indicating
that future research should focus on different means of improving
the working memory and perceptual deficits in unilateral neglect.
