Scratch Space 
-------------

Learning models -------------------------------------------------
@Fujita2005 developed a model of feed-forward associative motor learning
which works by associating the primary motor command with the corrective
motor command directly. The implication is that the motor centre and
learning device share the same place-encoded information, the motor
centre issues a learning signal and motor command as one signal, from
the same unit, and the learning signal issued with a corrective command
has a heterosynaptic interaction with the previous primary command.

-   

error signals influence dynamics (peak velocity) [@Straube1995], and
what does this tell us about saccadic regulation [@Ethier2008]

Prediction based error signal [@Wong2012]

![](data:)

Both the Cerebellum [@Noda1991, @Lewis1992] and the superior colliculus
[@Sparks1990; @Guitton1991] are known to be critical for the generation
of goal-directed saccades.

[Neither random perturbations nor static targets are good controls for
SA]@Desmurget2000 conducted a PET study with participants in three
conditions of saccadic adaptation (reactive saccades). The conditions
involved target perturbations occurring either systematically
(adaptation condition), randomly, or not at all (static target). They
examined three potential loci for the effects of saccadic adaptation
(i.e., a contrast of the adaptation condition and the random condition),
the frontal-eye fields, the superior colliculus, and the oculomotor
vermis area of the cerebellum. They found evidence that the cerebellum
structure was activated deferentially during adaptation, but neither of
the other two structures. Interestingly, when comparing the saccade
metrics of the static and random conditions, they also found effects of
single-trials. So it's possible that some of the adaptive mechanisms
were equally engaged in the random condition as with the adaptive
condition. The frontal eye fields still did not become active when
comparing adaptation with the static condition, however, and this is
consistent with what other researchers have postulated, that frontal eye
fields are more specialized for voluntary, self-generated saccades
rather than the reactive saccades used in this experiment [@Deubel1995
pp3538]. The authors also did not find superior colliculus activity in
either contrast, but are more cautious in interpreting this null result,
because of the lack of PET sensitivity in the deep structure, and a
conflicting result by @Paus1995. Perhaps the most intriguing finding,
the single-trial effects, display an insurmountable problem in the
literature. No-perturbation controls are insufficient because they, in
addition to lacking adaptation, also lack the corrective saccades and
provide a generally much more predictable environment for the
participant, while random-perturbation controls seem to actually be
impacting adaptive systems -albeit in a way that, over the long term,
produces no systematic changes. As a result, neither control is very
effective.

Transfer of eye movements to head movements in humans [@Kroller1996]
compared with monkeys [@Phillips1997;@Fuchs1996].

Bilateral Frontal-eye field activation during oculomotor tasks
[@Paus1993!].

Snippets from Hopp2004: @Hopp2004: a slide in post-saccadic eye position
has been induced by exponen- tial motion of a full-field stimulus at the
end of a saccade (e.g., Optican and Miles, 1985; Deubel, 1991; Kapoula
et al., 1987).

@Hopp2004: SA can be induced by the wearing of specialized prisms
(Henson, 1978) or anisotropic glasses (Lemij and Collewijn, 1991; Albano
and Marrero, 1995; Erkelens et al., 1989; Oohira et al., 1991; Bush et
al., 1994; Averbuch-Heller et al., 1999).

@Hopp2004: By analogy with such SC “motor fields”, Frens and van Opstal
(1997) named the spatial property of saccadic adaptation an “adaptation
field.”

@Hopp2004: In both monkeys and humans, a spot target that moves across a
stationary background, whether a random dot pattern, a combination of
squares and circles, or a colour photo, in- duces robust adaptation if
the spot target alone undergoes an adaptation step (Deubel, 1995a;
Ditterich et al., 1999; Robinson et al., 2000). Furthermore, in humans,
adapta- tion to a spot target with or without a background present is
statistically the same (Ditterich et al., 1999)

@Hopp2004: the focus of attention itself does not seem to shift with
saccadic adaptation. In the experi- ments of Ditterich et al. (2000a)...

@Hernandez2008 found that saccade lengthening (but not shortening)
transferred to pointing gestures to flashed targets. They try to account
for the effect as a combination of retinal location, sensorimotor
transform of retinal-to-extraocular muscles (of an encoded saccade), and
eye position. They postulate that the saccade lengthening adaptation
modifies TODO:understand this paper.

[SA-like adaptation of covert attention is possible] Interestingly,
@McFadden2002 found that they could directly adapt attentional
deployment in the absence of any eye movement. They cued attention to a
peripheral location, and then perturbed the cue back toward fixation at
a time interval estimated to coincide with an attentional shift. They
found that attentional shifts became gradually reduced. They also found
that when the participant was allowed to make eye movements, the
adaptation had transferred to saccades as well [@McFadden2002]. FIXME:
and this is important why?

\
 {.western}
-

\
\

