Introduction
-----------

Damage to the right inferior parietal cortex often leads to the disorder
of unilateral spatial neglect (refs).

[Describe neglect – non exhaustively]

Most theoretical accounts of the neglect syndrome couch it in terms of a
disorder of spatial attention (refs).

[briefly talk about the disengage deficit account – could also talk
about Corbetta and Shulman 2003 model of rIPL as a circuit breaker]

Attempts to rehabilitate neglect have met with varied success (refs).

[paraphrase stuff from Ferber and Danckert, 2006 describing the various
attempts]

More recently prism adaptation has been used as a means of restoring
attentional functioning in left visual space (refs).

[briefly describe the success story part – paraphrase from Striemer and
Danckert TICS paper]

However, not all studies show improved performance following prism
adapation (refs).

[now describe the failures – again source the TICS paper]

This these will explore some potential explanations for the dissociation
between prismatic influences on action and perception as described
above, before examining a different technique for rehabilitating
neglect. Chapter 1 will explore the relationship between visual working
memory and spatial attention to examine the hypothesis that these two
domains represent separate deficits in patients with neglect. Chapter 2
employed prism adaptation in right brain damaged (RBD) to explore the
effects on two domains – spatial working memory and temporal estimation
– that are critical for developing accurate perceptual representations
of the world. This chapter contributes to the growing evidence that
prisms fails to influence domains of processing important for the
construction of perceptual representations. Chapter 3 developed a
procedure for using saccadic adaptation to explore the possibility that
modifying eye position sense would lead to more generalised improvements
in both action and perception. This preliminary work was conducted in
healthy controls. Chapter 4 presents data from a single case of a
neglect patient undergoing the saccadic adaptation procedure. The
failures to adapt in this patient points to future directions of
research to address both volitional and reactive saccadic eye movements.

[some concluding sentence – you could point to the fact that you’ll
discuss directions for future research or limitations of the current
work or both]

