Introduction
------------

Unilateral spatial neglect is a disorder commonly resulting from damage
to the right inferior parietal or superior temporal cortex [tk].
Hereafter, specifically referred to simply as "neglect," the disorder
causes a heterogeneous collection of deficits that can be generally
categorized as an inability to respond to information on the
contralesional side. People with the disorder are spatially biased away
from contralesional space in their search behaviour [tk], grooming and
eating [tk], drawing [tk], posture [tk], and perceptual judgment of
spatial extent [e.g., line bisection; ]. The disorder is, as can be
expected from the list of symptoms, debilitating, and is associated with
poor rehabilitative outcome. Less than half of patents show improvements
in the weeks after a neglect inducing stroke, and a small minority fully
recover [Farnè2004@].

 Most theoretical accounts of the neglect
syndrome describe it as either a deficit of the deployment of spatial
attention, or one of awareness. More specifically, either an inability
to report, respond, or orient attention toward stimuli in left space
[@DriverMattingley1998 ,@HalliganVallar2003,@HeilmanValenstein1993] , or
a general loss of environmental awareness that can at it's most extreme,
cause a person to act as if the entire contralesional half of their
world has ceased to exist [@Mesulam1981 ]. The spatial-attention based
model does a good job of explaining many of the deficits displayed on
the clinical tests of neglect. For example, object cancellation (a
variant of the visual search task) and figure copying (a free-hand
drawing task) are believably influenced by the patient’s ability to
deploy attention across the page. Where attention cannot be directed,
mistakes or omissions are are made. Even for something like the
line-bisection task – in which the patient is asked to place a mark at
the perceived midpoint of a horizontal line – an inability to attend to
an endpoint is a plausible explanation for impaired performance [i.e.,
typically marks are placed a long way to the right of true centre; @tk].

 Attentional accounts of neglect typically
invoke two kinds of impairment; first, an ipsilesional bias such that
attention is preferentially oriented toward right space, and second, a
reorienting deficits such that neglect patients have difficulty
disengaging attention from stimuli in right space in order to reorient
towards the left. The so-called ‘disengage deficit’ was first posited as
an explanation of the related phenomenon of extinction – the failure to
report a contralesional stimulus when presented simultaneously with an
ipsilesional stimulus [@tk]. @Posner1984 examined this further using a
covert orienting task in which participants must detect peripheral
targets that can be validly or invalidly cued [i.e., cue and target
presented at the same or opposite locations respectively; @Posner1980].
On this task, neglect patients are disproportionately slower to respond
to left sided targets following a right sided cue – as if they have
trouble disengaging from the cue when presented in right space [see
@BartolomeoChokron2002 and @LosierKlein2001 for reviews]. Similarly, in
a visual search task, performance in contralateral space is driven by
the number of ipsilesional distractors [@EglinKnight1989]. This
coincides with a general body of research that supports the notion that
a crucial function of the inferior parietal cortex is to disengage
attention from the current focus and reorient toward a new, salient
location [for a review, see @CorbettaShulman2002 ].

 Given the debilitating nature of the
disorder a broad range of rehabilitation protocols have been attempted
[tk]. Perhaps because of the heterogeneity of the symptom profile in
neglect, most rehabilitation strategies have met with varied success
[@Danckert2006] . Both caloric stimulation, in which water, often
ice-cold, is injected into the patient's ear canal, and neck muscle
vibration, quickly orients the patient's torso, head, eyes, and
attention to the stimulated side, reducing several of the behavioural
deficits for a short time [\~20 minutes; @AdairHeilman2003
,@KarnathHartje1993,@KarnathDichgans1996,@Rubens1985]. Unfortunately,
these exercises are aversive and their short-term effects prevent them
from being useful as treatments. A much more promising rehabilitation
technique based on prismatic glasses has recently been shown to have
broader, and more lasting effects in neglect [@Rossetti1998;
RossiKheyfetsReding1990]. When patients with neglect are adapted to a
rightward visual shift and the glasses removed, the after-effects on
several behavioural measures are profound, and last considerably longer
than the adaptation time [@FarnèRossetti2002
,@Frassinetti2002,@Pisella2002,@Rossetti1998]. Judgment of
straight-ahead and line bisection became closer to true centre
[@Danckert2006], object cancellation, and figure copying improves
[@Rosetti1998 ], exploratory eye movements demonstrate a reduction in
rightward bias [@Danckert2006,@Ferber2003,,], visual imagery [@Rode2001
,@Rode1998], and posture [@Tilikete2001 ].

 Despite the long list of behaviours prisms have
been shown to ameliorate, more recent randomized control trials have
failed to show prisms as an efficacious rehabilitation treatment
[@Nys2008 ,@Turton2009]. Additionally, when an effort is made to examine
attention and perception more directly, the ameliorative effects seem to
become somewhat less clear. Some direct measures of attentional biases
have been shown to be affected by prisms, such as covert shifts of
attention [@Striemer2007,Nijboer2008], and extinction [@Serino2007],
while other, perhaps more realistic measures of attention, such as a
serial visual search task, have failed to show an effect [@Morris2004].
Similarly, while several studies have shown that prisms induce a shift
in voluntarily eye movements towards previously neglected space,
perceptual judgments can remain just as biased as before [@Dijkerman2003
,@Ferber2003]. This appears to be demonstrating a disassociation between
occulomotor "looking" and perceptual "seeing," with prisms restoring the
former but not the latter [@Danckert2010].

 The
dissociation between after effects that influence actions and those that
influence perception invokes the dual visual pathways hypothesis of
Goodale and Milner [@tk]. Information from primary visual cortex (V1)
projects to two streams, one projecting to the superior, posterior
parietal cortex that is important for the visual guidance of action (the
so-called dorsal ‘how’ pathway) and another that projects from V1 to
inferotemporal cortex and is important for perceptual processing [the
so-called ventral ‘what’ pathway; tk]. Prisms have been shown to
primarily influence processing within the dorsal stream [tk fMRI refs;
neglect recovery refs of Luaute et al and Corbetta and gang; Clower 1996
PET paper and 2000’s retroviral tracing in monkeys]. In this framework,
prisms will primarily influence behaviours supported by the the superior
parietal lobule and inferior parietal sulcus, areas well within the
dorsal stream that are typically undamaged in neglect. Instead, damage
to the inferior parietal/superior temporal gyrus leads not only to the
neglect syndrome, but also severely reduces (or even eliminates) the
brain's ability to integrate dorsal and ventral stream processing
[@Danckert2010]. In the same respect, the damage limits the ability of a
rehabilitative technique such as prisms, that operates primarily on the
dorsal stream,from influencing areas in the ventral system responsible
for higher level perceptual judgments. This thesis outlines three
experiments and a case study chosen to examine this duality between the
reactive, motor action system, and perceptual representation/awareness
in neglect.

 Chapter 1 explores the relationship between visual
working memory and spatial attention. It examines the hypothesis that
these two domains represent separate, but interacting deficits in
patients with neglect. Chapter 2 employs prism adaptation in right brain
damaged (RBD) participants to explore the effects of prisms on two
domains – spatial working memory and temporal estimation – that are
critical for developing accurate perceptual representations of the
world. This chapter contributes to the growing evidence that prisms fail
to influence domains of processing important for the construction of
perceptual representations. Chapter 3 develops a procedure for using
saccadic adaptation to explore the possibility that modifying eye
position sense would lead to more generalized improvements in both
action and perception. This preliminary work was conducted in healthy
controls. Chapter 4 presents data from a single case study of a neglect
patient undergoing the saccadic adaptation procedure. The failures to
adapt in this patient points to future directions of research to address
both volitional and reactive saccadic eye movements.

 The evidence presented in this thesis
supports the notion that neglect is not *just* a disorder of attention,
but can be characterized by a failure to build accurate perceptual
representations of the world. Prisms appear to have an effect on the
spatial action systems, having such a strong effect in part *because* of
the lack of awareness [@Danckert2010]; however, they don't seem to
change the deficits of perceptual representation. Deficits of perceptual
representation, as well as being central to the disorder, also represent
a major contributor to the debilitating nature of neglect. Concentrating
on the deficits of perceptual representation has the potential of making
substantial steps forward in understanding the disorder and producing
more effective rehabilitation efforts.

Exploring the relationship between visual working memory and attention in neglect.
==================================================================================

As already discussed, most of the traditional models of neglect describe
the disorder as a deficit of spatial attention. A disorder driven by a
disengagement deficit, or difficulty with disengaging attention away
from right-space stimuli [Posner1984], an attentional ‘stickiness’ that
results from disruption to inferior parietal cortex - a region known to
be important for effective attentional disengagement and re-orienting
[@Corbetta2002]. This anchoring of neglect as an attentional disorder,
however, colours performance deficits observed with other tasks. Tasks
which are not direct measures of attention, and for which performance
may be degraded for other reasons. For example, lateralized performance
on object cancellation tasks could be couched as an effect of the
spatial attention deficit, however, the revisiting behaviours observed
on the "good" side [@Husain2001,@Patron2006] may indicate something more
nuanced is occurring. Even eliminating targets as they are cancelled,
thereby removing their potential to capture attention, improves but does
not fully remediate neglect performance on the task [@Mark2012].

In fact, a great deal of research over the past few decades has
highlighted aspects of neglect that clearly go beyond spatially
lateralized deficits of attention. For example, neglect patients tend to
have difficulties with sustained attention [@Robertson1995], even when
operating in a non-spatial modality [@Roberson1997]. The attentional
blink, a measure of temporal, selective attention is exaggerated in
neglect. When presented with a rapid series of stimuli with two embedded
targets separated by varying temporal intervals, neglect patients
require up to three times as much time between them in order to identify
both correctly [@Husain1997]. In addition to these non-lateralized
attention deficits, recent work has highlighted deficits of spatial
working memory for stimuli in central or right, putatively non-neglected
space [@Husain2001,@Danckert2006,@Malhotra2005,@Striemer2013].

Non-lateralized selective attention and sustained attention are strongly
correlated with both neglect severity, and recovery over time
[@Husain2003]. Further, remediation of these non-spatial deficits can
improve spatial neglect symptoms [@Robertson1995]. This has lead some to
go so far as to speculate that the non-spatial deficits are the driving
factor behind the persistence and clinical relevance of neglect
[@Husain2003]. In other words, a bias in spatial attention is overcome
by the brain's adaptive mechanisms, *unless* it is accompanied by other
deficits of attentional deployment that prevent the brain from
recognizing the errors. More conservatively, these recent discoveries
indicate that, despite the fact that lateralized attentional deficits
seem to represent a cornerstone feature of the neglect syndrome, they,
alone, fail to compose a complete picture of the disorder.

Furthermore, recent attempts at rehabilitating neglect have shown that
while spatial attention can be improved, a range of perceptual biases
remain unaltered. As noted earlier, several aversive and invasive
treatments intended to trigger attentional re-orienting to left space
have been tried, with little clinical effectiveness. The most promising
treatment has been prism adaptation, because it is non-aversive, and
because it has been shown to produce effects lasting much longer than
the treatment duration [tk]. Unfortunately, while prism adaptation
produces striking changes in spatial attention [tk], there is a small,
but increasing set of neglect deficits that are not improved [tk]. Many
of these could be described as perceptual tasks, like deficits on the
landmark task [tk], and facial-emotion judgment [tk]. It may be the case
then that prisms operate on neural systems important for the deployment
of attention, but have little to no effect on those mechanisms needed to
form accurate perceptual representations.

Part of the deficit involved in maintaining accurate perceptual
representations may be driven by working memory impairments. As
mentioned earlier, neglect patients have deficits of spatial working
memory in "non-neglected," right or central space [tk]. In this context,
it's important to clarify the relationship between spatial working
memory and spatial attention. The two systems appear to be independent
and functionally unique, generally residing in ventral and dorsal visual
systems, respectively, although there is some functional overlap and
mutual interaction [@Awh2001]. Specifically, in healthy people,
mechanisms of spatial attention provide a rehearsal-like function to
maintain information held in working memory [@Awh2001].

This arguably creates three possible causes of the working memory
problems in neglect. First, they could be a direct result of spatial
attention deficits. This seems less-likely as patients maintain the
ability to orient to rightward and central targets effectively, however,
we can not rule out the possibility that subtle pathological orienting
deficits exist for central and right space that in turn impact upon WM.
If this was the case, though, we might expect perceptual deficits to
improve along with attention deficits and this does not appear to be the
case [tk]. Second, the ability to utilize spatial attention for
rehearsal may be disrupted in neglect by a dorsal-ventral disconnect
arising from the neglect-inducing lesion. This would imply that ventral
processing may not be directly impaired in neglect, but that the spatial
working memory deficit comes from the ventral system's inability to
recruit attentional mechanisms to support rehearsal processes [tk Awh].
Third, the working memory deficits may be independent of the spatial
attention deficits.

To test this possibility, a new version of the working memory task was
created to minimize the possible reliance on spatial attention rehearsal
mechanisms. Rather than asking participants to remember and recall the
spatial locations of targets, memory for target colour was tested.
Placing the primary requirement of the task on colour processing
dramatically reduced reliance on spatial attention and placed any
rehearsal mechanism requirements within the ventral stream, eliminating
the likelihood that the measured deficits would be the result of the
hypothesized disconnection between the dorsal and ventral streams. If
attention and working memory deficits are indeed independent in neglect,
then deficits of a similar degree of severity would be expected on this
task as have been seen in past research employing a purely spatial WM
task. That is, WM deficits will be evident even when the involvement of
spatial attention is low.

Method
------

### Participants

The covert orienting task was performed by two groups, a group of eight
neurological patients who showed symptoms of neglect in pre-testing (3
male, 2 left handed, mean age of 66, see table [tbl:VWM] for more
details), and a healthy older control group (3 male, handedness
untested, mean age of 74). The study was approved by all relevant
hospital and institutional ethics review boards. The two groups were not
strictly age-matched, but did not significantly differ with respect to
age ($t(12.5) = 1.8$, $\text{p} = 0.10$). All patients were tested at
least tk months post-stroke. The visual working memory task was
performed by these same two groups plus an additional control group of 9
healthy young adults (tk female, mean age of tk).

FIXME: Recruitment pool(s)?

Patients were also tested for signs of neglect using three standard
clinical tests: line bisection, star cancellation, and figure copying
[@Wilson1987]. Figure copying was codded qualitatively as having or
lacking signs of neglect. The other two tasks are inherently
quantitative by nature, and included for analysis as such, but cutoffs
were used to signify the presence of neglect. The participant's
bisection marks were recorded as deviation from centre as a percentage
of the total line's length. Impaired performance was defined as a bias
of greater than 5% of line-length. For star cancellation, the percentage
of missed targets on the left side of the page was recorded, and
impaired performance was defined as \> 10% of targets. Three of the
patients scored as impaired on all the tasks, and these participants
also scored highest quantitatively on the bisection and cancellation
tasks (see table [tbl:VWM]). Only one did not show neglect on any task.

TODO: Table [tbl:VWM] goes about here. Demographic, clinical, VWM, and
COVAT summary results of the neurological patient group.

### Apparatus and Procedure

#### Visual Working Memory Task

The visual working memory task was a modification of the one used by
@Emrich2012. It was presented on a Dell Latitude D820 Laptop with
Windows XP and executed by Matlab on the built-in 8.5x13" screen.
Instead of targets and a colour wheel surrounding central fixation, the
colour wheel was replaced with a vertical colour bar and it, as well as
the targets, always appeared to the right of centre in order to minimize
the impact of spatial attention deficits on WM performance (see Figure
[fig:CH1-task]).

A trial sequence for the VWM task was as follows: a fixation cross was
presented for 500ms, followed by a target array which consisted of
either 1,2, or 3 targets of different colours presented vertically
aligned on the right side for 500ms. Targets could appear in one of 16
different locations in the vertical column. Following target
presentation there was a delay of 1000ms, followed by the appearance of
the vertical colour bar and probe stimuli. The probes occupied the same
locations occupied by the targets but were unfilled (i.e., probes did
not contain any colour information; Figure [fig:CH1-task]). One of the
probes was highlighted by by a bolded outline, and participants were
asked to indicate, by external mouse input, the colour of the target
indicated by the bolded probe location (Figure [fig:Ch1-task). Unlimited
time was given, and the participant could make changes to their response
an unlimited number of times until satisfied they had accurately
indicated the target colour. Note that in the single target condition,
there would only be one outline, and the task was essentially to
remember the colour of the target. In the two and three target
conditions, only one of the two or three probes was highlighted, and the
participant would be required to recall the colour of the target that
had been presented at that particular location (Figure [fig:Ch1-task]).

TODO: Figure [fig:Ch1-task] goes about here. Figure depicts both VWM and
COVAT tasks diagrammatically. Task makes clear that there may be 1, 2 or
3 targets on the VWM task.

#### Covert Orienting of Attention Task

The covert orienting task (Posner, 1978, 1980) was identical in design
to that of @Striemer2007 and was run on the same computer as the visual
working memory task described above. It was programmed and run in
Superlab (Cedrus Software). Participants were presented with 100 trials,
outlined in figure [fig:CH1-task]. A single trial sequence consisted of
a fixation cross with peripheral landmarks (empty green circles 12º to
right and left of centre, each subtending 2º). This stimulus was
followed by the appearance of a peripheral cue (1050-1550ms), which
consisted of the brightening of one landmark. After an SOA of 50 or
150ms, targets, which consisted of red circles presented within the
landmark, appeared either at the cued location (valid trials) or at the
opposite location (invalid trials; Figure [fig:Ch1-task). Cues were
non-informative (i.e., 50% of cued trials were valid and 50% were
invalid trials). There were also no-cue trials in which the target
appeared without any preceding cue. Targets appeared equally often on
the left and right sides. Participants maintained fixation throughout
the task. This was monitored by the experimenter and verbal feedback was
given periodically to encourage participants to maintain fixation.

### Data Analysis

The visual working memory task recorded the exact colour value selected
by the participant. From this several measures were calculated: the
probability that the response represented an attempt at selecting the
correct target colour ($P_T$), one of the distractor target colours
($P_{NT}$, in the two and three target conditions), or simply
represented a random guess ($P_G$), was calculated with the
probabilistic model described in @Emrich2012 and @Bayes2009 (see figure
[fig:Emrich2012]).

For each trial, these measures were calculated based on the physical
location of the participant's response relative to the true target
colours. First, a probability that the participant indicated the correct
target colour, $P_T$, by the magnitude of the location on a Gaussian
distribution centred around the exact target colour. If the trial type
included more than one initial box, then the probability the response is
to a non-target, $P_{NT}$, is calculated in the same way. Lastly, the
probability the patient guessed randomly is based on a flat
distribution, but the above distributions were chosen so that this was
effectively the remainder (i.e., $P_G = 1 - (P_T + P_{NT})$. To compute
an estimate of the precision of target responses, the $SD$ of the
probability model used to compute the above three components was also
recorded. This provides a measure of the spatial response precision of
those trials where the patient successfully recalls and reports a target
colour (i.e., $P_T$ and $P_{NT}$).

TODO: Figure [fig:Emrich2012] goes about here. If we use this, we need
permission to reprint it (right half of figure in @Emrich2012). Figure
graphically depicts the three probability distributions used to
calculate the three values. I'll combine this with an image of the
target and colour bar I also have.

For the covert orienting task, response times were recorded and means
were calculated for each trial category for each participant. Cue-effect
sizes (CES) – the different in RT between valid and invalid trials – for
leftward and rightward shifts of attention for each participant at each
level of SOA were calculated. For leftward shifts, RTs to validly cued
right targets were subtracted from invalidly cued left targets (i.e., in
both cases, the cue is on the right, and the magnitude of the difference
comes from the extra time taken re-orienting to the left invalid
target). The rightward CES was calculated in the inverse way – RTs to
validly cued left targets were subtracted from invalidly cued right
targets.

FIXME: Chris wrote the following in his 2007 paper, is that what was
done here? "For controls, RTs were discarded if they were \<150 ms or
more than two SDs above the participant’s overall mean. For patients,
RTs were discarded if they were \<150 ms or \>1000 ms." Since means were
calculated, cutoffs should probably be stated.

Significance was defined as $p < 0.05$ throughout this entire document.
Where independent samples $t$ tests are used, unless otherwise
specified, the Welch approximation of the degrees of freedom for unequal
variance was used.

Results
-------

### Visual Working Memory

#### Single Target Condition

The single target condition of the VWM task was analyzed separately as
it represents an arguably distinct challenge to participants, and the
outcome variables are different (i.e., it lacks a $P_{NT}$ measure) when
compared with the two and three target conditions. Unlike those
conditions, a the single target does not require the participant to
encode spatial location, or any binding of colour and spatial location.
It is more purely a measure of the person's ability to precisely encode
and recall a target colour.

 Response precision for the single target condition
was compared between the three groups using a one-way ANOVA. There were
no significant differences between the group means, despite an apparent
advantage for the young controls (one way: $F(2,22)= 1.50$,
$\text{p}=0.2$). Both older groups contain extreme examples that, by
themselves, significantly increase mean precision for the groups.
However, while removing one or both extreme examples from the two older
groups may result in a significant group effect, the procedure would
only increase the homogeneity of the two older groups, implying an
effect of age rather than neglect on precision. It's also worth noting
that all of the patients responded within the range of performance
observed in the two control groups.

FIXME: No, this is just based on the single target condition. This test
is only here to rule out the possibility that effects of neglect, found
later, are *not* the simple result of a lost motoric ability to point
accurately. I suspect that a mixed effects Anova would be a less robust
way to answer this question, due to the increased assumptions. I'll run
the mixed model later so it can be slipped in if needed.

 Because the single target condition has no non-targets, and
therefore no $P_{NT}$ (i.e., $P_{T} = (1 - P_{G})$), there is
effectively only one dependent variable and the choice of which
probability to use for analysis is arbitrary. For convenience, $P_{G}$
is used here as the dependant variable. As can be seen in figure
[fig:VWM\_1Target], the two healthy groups perform nearly perfectly by
this metric. A one-way ANOVA containing all three group means was
significant ($F(2) = 38$, $\text{p} < 0.001$). Tukey HSD tests were
performed to compare the means, and the two healthy groups, who appear
to have been performing at ceiling, are not shown to be different
($\overline{M}_{\text{diff}} = 0.02$, $\text{p} = 0.56$). However, both
young adults and older control groups were significantly different from
than the patients ($\overline{M}_{\text{diff}} = 0.17$,
$\text{p} < 0.001$, and , $\overline{M}_{\text{diff}} = 0.19$,
$\text{p} < 0.001$, respectively).

TODO: Figure [fig:VWM\_1Target] goes about here. Figure depicts the
guessing probability for the three groups, with the two healthy groups
obviously at ceiling.

#### Two and Three Target Conditions

 In the multi-target conditions, three outcome probability
estimates were produced. As was the case for the one target condition,
these probability estimates sum to one, and as such represent only two
unique values. Here, the two types of failures were chosen for the
analysis (the probability of guessing, $P_{G}$, and the probability of
indicating a non-target ($P_{NT}$)). The two dependant variables were
analyzed separately, rather than in a multivariate analysis, as the
characteristics of the data violate many of the assumptions of standard
multivariate tests and the limited sample size would render any result
tenuous at best. This limits the ability to compare the two outcomes,
but provides clearer answers to the distinct questions each measure
addresses.

 First, guessing, or indicating a colour that was not
represented in any of the target distributions (see Figure a). The
restricted range of probability scores, and high frequency of near-zero
outcomes produced a highly skewed and non-normal distribution that even
with data transformations, was not sufficiently normal for parametric
analysis to be appropriate. The means of the three groups and two target
conditions can be seen in figure [fig:VWM\_MTarget\_G]. As an attempt to
analyze the data, the two target conditions were collapsed to produce
means for a more generic "multi-target" performance metric.

TODO: [fig:VWM\_MTarget\_G] goes about here.

 The Kruskal-Wallis rank sum test was used for the
non-parametric omnibus model of $P_G$, and it did not indicate
differences ($\chi^2(2) = 2.89$, $\text{p} = 0.2$). Non-parametric
relative effects using Tukey contrasts were performed in a "one-sided"
fashion, assuming age and injury would only impair performance. The
Patients did not significantly differ from either the young adults
($t(8) = 2.20$, $\text{p} = 0.08$), or older controls ($t(8) = 0.19$,
$\text{p} = 0.8$). Additionally, the two healthy groups did not differ
from one another ($t(8) = 0.86$, $\text{p} = 0.5$). [Footnote:
Parametric tests were also performed using a square-root transform of
the data and yielded the same results.]

 As was the case for the $P_G$, the $P_{NT}$
data is highly non-normal and transformations are ineffective in
correcting for the nature of the data. Figure [fig:VWM\_MTarget\_NT]
presents the means for the two multi-target conditions (2- and
3-targets). As was done for the guessing data, analysis was performed on
the collapsed means of the two conditions. Here, however, the
Kruskal-Wallis test was significant ($\chi^2(2) = 7.5$,
$\text{p} < 0.05$). Multiple comparison tests yielded significant
differences between the patients and the two healthy groups
($t(12) = 2.47$, $\text{p} < 0.05$, $d=tk$, for older controls, and
$t(8) = 3.9$, $\text{p} < 0.05$, $d=tk$, for young adults). The two
healthy groups did not significantly differ from one another
($t(8) = 0.54$, $\text{p} = 0.6$).

TODO: Figure [fig:VWM\_MTarget\_NT] goes about here. Figure depicts
non-target probability means for the three groups. Might include visual
indication of the two conditions that contribute to each mean.

### Covert Orienting Task

Analysis of the covert orienting data was extremely limited given that 3
of the 8 patients failed to respond to any left-sided targets. Not only
does this prevent any measure of leftward orienting deficits in almost
half the sample, but those three participants also exhibited the
strongest symptoms of neglect on the clinical measures. This means that
not only is the statistical power of any analysis substantially reduced,
but that analysis will necessarily be performed only on moderately
neglecting participants.

Leftward cue-effect sizes (CES) were calculated for each participant in
the patient group and older controls. Overall, both groups exhibited
significant cue effects, indicating significant cost for reorienting
attention to invalidly cued targets ($t(4) = 2.16$, $\text{p} < 0.05$,
for the patients, and $t(7) = 2.48$, $\text{p} < 0.05$ for the older
controls). To examine group differences in covert orienting, a mixed
Anova was performed with group as the between-subjects factor and SOA as
the within-subjects factor. An effect of group approached significance
($F(1) = 3.7$, $\text{p} = 0.08$), while SOA and the interaction were
non-significant ($F(1) = 0.5$, $\text{p} = 0.49$, and $F(1) = 0.02$,
$\text{p} = 0.8$).

 Figure [fig:COVAT] depicts the CES
of the 5 neglect participants over the range of performance observed in
the healthy controls. As can be seen in the figure, three of the
patients performed well within the range of healthy controls. In
contrast, the final two patients demonstrated leftward CESs that were
well outside the range of the healthy older controls. It is also worth
noting that one of the two, Patient 171, did not show any signs of
neglect on the clinical tests, and the other, Patient 454, exhibited
only weakly neglecting symptoms when compared with their cohort. The
patient produced a bisection bias above our threshold, though only at
6%, a near median performance for the group, and produced errors in
figure copying, but did not miss any left-sided targets in the stars
test. It also should be noted that Patient 171 did not show similarly
large rightward CE sizes, so it cannot be said that the result was a
deficit of general covert re-orienting, but, indeed, a lateralized
deficit ($CES_R$ of -22 and 11 for 50 and 150ms SOA respectively). For
Patient 454, it was less clear ($CES_R$ of -263 and -21 for 50 and 150ms
SOA respectively; negative values indicate faster invalid trials).

FIXME: I don't like the above paragraph, but am not sure what to do with
it. It seems muddled to me.

TODO: Figure [fig:COVAT] goes about here. Depicts left CES of each of
the 5 patients. I'd include right CES as contrast, but don't think it
makes sense as right invalid trials would include a left cue that was
(probably) missed.

### Comparing TE and SWM

The reduced group size, as a result of the inability of three patients
to orient to leftward targets, prevents reliable statistical analysis of
the relationship between the covert orienting and visual working memory
tasks. The two patients that performed well outside of the range of
healthy performance on the covert orienting task did not stand out with
extreme performance deficits on the visual working memory task. When
compared with the rest of the neglecting group, as can be observed in
table [tbl:VWM], Patient 454 performed slightly worse than the median on
both visual working memory measures, while Patient 171, who,
incidentally was the only one in the group to score negatively on all
three clinical measures of neglect, was actually the most accurate
participant, again, on both measures. This lack of reliably similar
performance between the two tasks hints at the decoupled nature of the
two domains suggested earlier.

Discussion
----------

 The response precision data indicates that the patients
were able to perform the basic task of indicating a colour to a similar
degree of proficiency as the two control groups, demonstrating that
basic perceptual representations are in-tact, and that they are able to
perform the motor response as effectively as controls when they are able
to recall the correct visual information. In contrast, when examining
the apparent reliability of patient's recollections, the data appears to
indicate that neglect patients fail to recall the colour of targets and
respond in a way that indicates more prevalent guessing.

 When participants were asked to perform the
same VWM task in the presence of distractors, two things change: there
is an increase in memory load, as patients are asked to remember more
items, and some of that information must be associated, as patients must
now bind colours and locations. That is, in addition to remembering more
than a single colour, patients needed to remember the relative spatial
arrangement of those colours in order to answer correctly. As a result,
two types of errors can be committed. A failure to recall a colour (a
guess), or a mis-identification of one of the distractors as belonging
to the indicated spatial position (incorrect target response).

 Interestingly, in contrast to the
single target condition, the patient group does not appear to guess more
frequently than the other groups when presented with multiple targets.
This may reflect a limited sensitivity in this task variant, as in the
multi-target condition, binding errors appear to be the overwhelming
source of failures. While the single-target condition is effectively
tuned to detect guessing (as that's the only type of error), the
multi-target conditions simply provides less opportunity to detect
guessing, both in terms of space on the colour bar that results in
coding a response as a guess, and in terms of response frequency, given
the three possible outcome probabilities.

Additionally, it should not be automatically discounted that a
difference in the healthy control groups might account for the failure
to identify group differences in guessing in the multi-target condition.
The control groups perform almost perfectly on the single target
condition, but fell away from this "ceiling" somewhat on the
multi-target condition. The difference between neglect and healthy
performance may simply be more accentuated when the task is calibrated
such that healthy performance is near perfect and not highly variable.

 Unlike with guessing, patients were more
likely to select non-targets in multi-target conditions. There are many
potential explanations for this, the most obvious being an increase in
binding failures (tk Binding errors citation: Treisman, Behrmann or
Humphreys and Riddoch). When more than one target is presented, colour
information must be associated with spatial arrangement in memory. If
all of the colours are effectively encoded and recalled, but a failure
to bind the colours to spatial location occurs, participants will select
a distractor colour 50% of the time in the two-target condition, and 66%
of the time in the three-target condition.

The other event that can lead to this type of error is a simple failure
to recall all of the stimuli colours. If the target colour cannot be
recalled, it is possible the participant may be inclined to select one
of the distractor colours, or something close to it, by strategy or
cognitive anchoring. This experiment is not able to clearly disambiguate
the two causes. However, if the large deficit observed here was caused
by patients forgetting target colours, than it seems likely that such
frequent recall failures would have also lead to a similarly large
increase in the amount of guessing. As guessing didn't appear to
increase in this condition, binding errors are the more likely culprit.

 The data also brings to light some difficulties with the covert
orienting task in the study of neglect. Neglect is often defined in
terms of attention, but in this case, for three patients, leftward
re-orienting of attention appeared to be less sensitive a measure of
neglect than the paper and pencil standard clinical measures. As used
here, it appears to suffer from a restriction of range problem. While
several of the most severely neglecting participants could not complete
the task at all, several others, whom still exhibited signs of neglect
on at least one clinical measure, performed well inside normal
parameters. The apparent failure of the task to capture either subtle or
strong deficits indicates that the task, as it was used here, may not be
very effective for capturing the range of attention deficits in neglect,
or useful for the comparison of attention and other deficits in neglect.

 While a reliable statistical comparison of the two
tasks was made impossible by the inability of several participants to
complete the task, there is some information that may be gleaned from
what remains, and provide hints toward further research. The two
patients with strikingly poor ability to re-orient leftward did not
stand out as being particularly degraded on either visual working memory
or clinical measures of neglect. In fact, one of them didn't show
clinical neglect at all. This should serve as a cautionary note, hinting
that it's may be possible for some individuals to exhibit strong
leftward covert orienting bias in the absence of symptoms on clinical
measures of neglect, or visual working memory deficits.

 Despite the
fact that 8 patients with neglect were recruited for this study, as can
be seen from the results, there are several issues with making strong
claims about group differences. Most notably, neglect patients are a
highly heterogeneous group, with widely varying degrees of deficits, and
different relationships between the deficits. Clinical measures such as
those used here may not be sensitive enough, or cover enough domains of
performance, to detect deficits still present in the individual. Further
research, besides avoiding the covert orienting task as a measure of
spatial deficits, would benefit from within-subject designs, such as
before-and-after certain treatments, or longitudinally, as patients
recover. Such designs would avoid some of the problems inherent in
group-wise comparisons hamstrung by the heterogeneity of the disorder.
The clinical symptoms, covert orienting deficits, and visual working
memory deficits examined here may emerge from damage to un-related or
weakly-linked domains of the neglect disorder, but further research with
larger sample sizes, preferably making use of repeated measures designs,
will be required.

Most rehabilitation techniques implemented in neglect focus on
remediating the attention deficits. If these attention deficits are
distinct from the working memory impairments discussed here and
elsewhere (tk), than this rehabilitation strategy will fail to address
this domain, and leave patients with untreated symptoms. The next
chapter addresses this question by examining the effects of a prominent
rehabilitation technique on non-attentional biases.

Prism adaptation does not improve deficits in spatial working memory or temporal estimation.
============================================================================================

The previous chapter demonstrated that the working memory deficits
observed in neglect are not specific to spatial working memory, and
therefore cannot be reduced to a simple consequence of spatial
attention. This working memory deficit joins several perceptual deficits
discovered in neglect to highlight an independent, subtle but
debilitating, set of deficits that stand apart from the traditionally
described deficits of spatial attention.

 As discussed earlier, one of the
most promising and well studied treatments for the remediation of
neglect is the use of short term adaptation to leftward shifting prisms
[tk]. Much of the research into prism adaptation has focused on the
striking changes in spatial attention, demonstrating a shift from
completely ignoring stimuli left of centre, to attending almost equally
to leftward as rightward stimuli [one or more of Striemer & Danckert,
2007; Nijboer et al., Schindler et al., 2008]. Interestingly, at least
one prism adaptation paper failed to demonstrate what seems consistent
and reliable elsewhere. While most of the research investigating the
effects of prism adaptation on spatial attention utilize tasks such as
covert orienting or tk, @Morristk used a visual search paradigm, and was
unable to demonstrate any benefits of prism adaptation [@Morristk].

 Serial visual search involves successive
steps that make use of more than a single system. There is the
perceptual judgment of stimuli identity that determines progress in the
search, for instance. While patients don't seem to have trouble
discerning the stimuli types used in visual search, eye-tracking
research has demonstrated that even young, healthy, individuals fixate
but fail to identify targets occasionally [tk], so reduced perceptual
judgment could play a role in diminishing performance. That diminished
performance could also come from the search algorithm. People don't
search targets in a completely random order, so spatial working memory
must play some role in directing search based on previous locations.
Further, the revisiting behaviour observed when neglect patients perform
object cancellation [tk] hints that their search pattern for visual
search may be working memory impaired

 The reliable effect of prisms on
remediating spatial attention deficits, with their simultaneous lack of
obvious efficacy on more perceptually demanding tasks and visual search,
a working memory loaded task, indicate that their effect may be
primarily on the dorsal visual stream. The two visual stream hypothesis
places spatial attention and action (where and how) in the dorsal
stream, passing from visual areas in occipital cortex into much of the
parietal lobe [tk]. Conversely, it places perception, and working memory
of those perceptions, in the ventral stream, radiating into the temporal
lobe [sametk]. Various lines of research have pointed to prisms
specifically effecting dorsal areas. @Danckert2008 and @Clower1996 have
both demonstrated "dorsal stream" activation during prism adaptation,
with fMRI and PET respectively. Both studies found activation in the
intraparietal sulcus. @Danckert2008 also found anterior cingulate and
cerebellar activation, but neither study identified activation in
ventral stream areas.

 Some
research into the specific neural correlates of prisms in neglect.
@Luatei2006 found that several areas correlated with the effectiveness
of prisms at remediating neglect symptoms using PET. They found an
extensive cluster of areas, which included posterior parietal cortex
[@Luate2006]. An examination of task-evoked brain activity during
recovery from neglect corroborates this notion. Participants performing
a covert orienting task while undergoing fMRI imaging exhibited
significantly attenuated activity in undamaged areas of visual cortex,
posterior parietal cortex (particularly the intraparietal sulcus and
superior parietal lobule), and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
[@Corbetta2005].

 The effects of prisms appear to be highly specific to the
dorsal, spatial attention deficits in neglect, and yet, as highlighted
in the previous chapter, there does appear to be significant deficits
that can be characterized as primarily loading the ventral visual system
in neglect (i.e., visual and spatial working memory [Ch.1., tk],
perceptual judgments of spatial extent [tk], or emotional expression
[tk], among others). This chapter explores the influence of prisms on
two functions shown to be impaired in neglect, and chosen because they
demonstrate impairments in a neglect patient's ability to maintain
accurate perceptual representations of his or her environment. The
effect of prisms on spatial working memory and temporal perception were
examined. Both spatial working memory and temporal perception are
predominantly tasks of perception, and likely be supported by mechanisms
primarily located in the ventral stream. As such, we expected to find
neglect patients would continue to demonstrate deficits in these two
tasks even after prism adaptation. More precisely, we expected to show
prisms simultaneously benefit dorsal stream tasks, like the clinical
line-bisection measure, but not perception-dominant tasks, like spatial
working memory or temporal perception.

Method
------

### Participants

Nine patients with right parietal damage who had shown clinical symptoms
of neglect in previous testing were recruited from the Neurological
Patient Database (funded through the Heart and Stroke Foundation of
Ontario). Two patients were unable to return for the second phase of the
experiment because of extenuating circumstances, and a third participant
was removed from the study because of extensive cerebellar damage. The
remaining six, (tk male, tk female) patients completed the task. The
group had a mean age of tk (), and tk were right handed. The study was
approved by the relevant hospital and institutional ethics review
boards. All patients were tested at least tk months post-stroke. One
participant was not able to perform the spatial working memory task
(giving a single response to all trials), and was therefore removed from
that component of the analysis.

TODO: [tbl:Prisms] goes about here. Table includes demographics, stroke
info, clinical measures, pre- and post-prisms z-scores on the two tasks.

### Apparatus and Procedure

Patients participated in at least two sessions. The two sessions were
intended to differ only in the presence or absence of prism adaptation.
One patient discontinued their first session due to fatigue but was able
to complete testing in a second session.

As in the previous chapter, patients were tested for symptoms of neglect
using four standard clinical measures. These were line bisection, figure
copying, and two cancellation tasks: "stars" and "bells" [@Wilson1987].
The four tasks were completed at the beginning of every session. Line
bisection was also performed twice during sessions involving prisms,
before and after adaptation. Coding and analysis of the tasks were
performed in the same way as in Chapter 1. The results of the clinical
measures are depicted in table [tbl:Prisms].

#### Spatial Working Memory Task

The spatial working memory (SWM) task is a similar, simpler relative of
the visual working memory task that was used in the last chapter
[@Ferber2006]. Patients were seated at a viewing distance of
approximately 60 cm, with their head and body axes aligned (no chin-rest
was used, optical angles presented below are therefore approximate). The
task was programmed in Visual Basic Version 6.0 (Microsoft Inc.), and
displayed on a tk computer with a tk inch display. The task was the same
as described in @Ferber2006 and @Striemer2013. At the beginning of each
trial, patients fixated a red central cross. Once fixated, the
experimenter began the trial by depressing a key and the cross turned
green. After 1 second, three targets were presented 2º to the right of
fixation, vertically aligned. The targets were squares subtending 1.5º,
and could appear in any of six positions, however, targets were always
separated from one-another by at least 2º.

The targets remained on-screen for 2 seconds which was followed by a
delay of 3 seconds. A probe stimulus (a circle of the same size as the
target squares) appeared at one of the 16 possible locations. The probe
remained on the screen until a response was entered via the keyboard
(figure [fig:Prisms]). The patients were asked to remember the locations
of the target squares across the delay interval and then verbally report
to the experimenter whether or not the probe appeared in one of the
locations previously occupied by a target. A total of 120 trials
constituted a single session. In 50% of trials, the circle appeared in
the same position as one of the preceding squares.

TODO: Figure [fig:Prisms] goes about here. Diagrammatic outline of the
SWM and TE tasks.

#### Temporal Estimation Task

The Temporal Estimation (TE) task was displayed on the same computer as
the SWM task, but was programmed in E-Prime (Psychology Software Tools).
As with the SWM task, patients gave verbal responses, and the
experimenter entered those responses and controlled the task via the
keyboard. The task was the same as @Danckert2007. When a trial was
initiated by the experimenter, an illusory motion stimulus was presented
that consisted of eight open circles (each subtending 3.5º), arranged in
a larger circle around the centre of the screen (radius of 8º), with
each circle being filled, one at a time, in a clockwise direction
(figure [fig:Prisms]). This created the illusion of a filled-circle
moving around the outer circle. Rather than a fixation, the centre of
the screen periodically displayed a number (numbers 1-9, presented for
300ms, 1.5º in size), which the participant was asked to verbally report
as they appeared. This effectively maintained central fixation for the
patients and provided a check that participants were attending to the
task. In addition, this component was added to the task to prevent
participants from sub-audibly counting out the interval duration.

To avoid problems with responses, certain constraints were placed on the
appearance of the numbers. They would not appear less than 500ms from
the beginning or end of the trial, or another number. The interval
between numbers was also never more than 1500ms. At the conclusion of
the trial, the circles disappeared and the participant was asked to
indicate, verbally, the duration of the interval in whole seconds. The
intervals were randomly chosen from 5, 15, 30, and 60 seconds with 5
trials per duration.

### Data Analysis

As in chapter one, line bisection bias was coded as a percentage of
line-length, and star- and bell-cancellation tasks, based on the
percentage of left-side targets that were omitted. All measures were
computed pre- and post-prisms, and where multiple sessions were
performed, values were averaged (Table [tbl:Prisms]).

For the spatial working memory task, there were two trial types; those
where the probe appeared in the same location as one of the targets, and
those in which probes appeared in a non-target location. Based on the
two trial types, responses were categorized as true- and
false-positives, and true- and false-negatives (positive and negative
indicating the responses, and true and false indicating whether the
response was correct). A single sensitivity metric was calculated for
each patient, pre- and post-prisms, by subtracting false-positives from
true-positives (i.e., "hits" - "false alarms"). Normative performance in
healthy individuals from pre-existing research with this task was used
to provide context to these values [@Ferber2006].

The temporal estimation task analyzed the time interval estimates the
patients reported. For each patient, a mean of reported times was
calculated for each time interval, both for pre and post prisms data.

Results
-------

### Spatial Working Memory Task

In congruence with previous research using this spatial working memory
task [@Ferber2006, @Striemer2013], all of the patients who were showing
clinical signs of neglect performed very poorly. Figure [fig:SWM] plots
the patient mean "hits minus false alarms" metric along with expected
range (2 standard deviations from the means) of the neurologically
intact and non-neglecting right brain damaged participants from
@Ferber2006. While the patient who did not demonstrating neglect on the
clinical tasks at time of testing (27) performed similar to the
non-neglecting data, the remainder's baseline performance was at least 3
standard deviations outside what was observed in either group.

TODO: Figure [fig:SWM] goes about here. Depicts pre and post-prism SWM
performance for all participants, with normative regions.

As a group, SWM performance does statistically improve when a one-sided
test is used (presuming prisms would not decrease performance,
$t(4)=2.67$, $\text{p} < 0.05$). When consulting figure [fig:SWM], it
becomes obvious, however, that there is not a consistently large
improvement across all patients, and even those who did improve did not
demonstrate performance in the range expected from healthy individuals
(figure [fig:SWM]). All four patients showing clinical signs of neglect
still showed large deficits post-prisms, compared with the performance
of non-neglecting right brain damaged patients previously examined on
this test (z-scores between 3.4 and 7.2). When compared with performance
of the more variable, neurologically intact right-brain damaged
individuals (the lighter region in figure [fig:SWM]), patient 171 does
cross into a region statistically indistinguishable from normative
performance ($z=1.2$), but the others remain well outside
($3.1 < z < 5.0$).

### Temporal Estimation Task

As can be observed in figure [fig:TE], the five patients who showed
clinical signs of neglect massively underestimated the time intervals
(Patient 27 underestimated to some degree pre-prisms, and responded very
accurately post-prisms). As a result, analysis was done both with and
without including Patient 27, and results did not differ. What is
presented here is the data excluding patient 27. An analysis of
covariance was performed, with prism condition as a fixed factor and
trial duration as a random covariate, and there was no indication of an
influence of prisms on time interval reporting ($F(1,4)= 0.79$,
$\text{p}=0.4$).

For each participant and condition, a linear model (least squares) was
computed in order to yield a measure of the relationship (slope) between
time interval and reports. As can be seen in figure [fig:TE], the
relationship was not recti-linear (first order), so linear models were
computed based on log-transformed time. When this was done, linear
models fit very well (13 models, $r^2$: first quartile =0.80, median
=0.87, third quartile =0.92). The worst case model was, nevertheless,
still significant ($F(1,14)=12.4$, $\text{p}< 0.01$, $r^2=0.47$),
indicating that despite their poor performance, patients' responses
were, in fact, reliably influenced by the true trial intervals.

TODO: Figure [fig:TE] goes about here. Figure depicts both line-plots of
reported interval vs. true interval, and barplots that more clearly
depict performance change pre- to post prisms (slope of log-time).

### Line bisection

As a group, the neglecting patients showed a significant change in line
bisection bias after prism adaptation in the direction traditionally
seen in the research, when a one-sided test is used (patient 27 removed,
$t(4)=2.6$, $\text{p} = 0.03$). Individual t tests on the sets of line
bisections for each patient demonstrated a relatively consistent effect
across individuals. As can be seen in figure [fig:LB\_Prisms], the
changes were nearly-universally leftward excepting patient 27, the
non-neglecting patient.

TODO: Figure [fig:LB\_Prisms] goes about here. Figure caption will
include all of the individual t-tests and differences on the plot will
be indicated with stars. All patients showed significant change post
prisms except 163 and 408 (with the latter not quite reaching
significance due to extreme trial-to-trial variability).

As a group, the neglecting patients did not improve on either bell
($t(4)=0.6$, $\text{p}=0.5$), or star cancellation ($t(4)=1.7$,
$\text{p}=0.2$), and, as can be seen in table [tbl:Prisms], only one
patient showed improvement on figure copying (Patient 171).

Discussion
----------

 As discussed above, prisms have repeatedly
been found to influence deficits putatively associated with dorsal
visual stream processing. Here, we replicate past findings that prisms
effect the bias present when neglect patients perform the line bisection
[tk], a task that involves a motoric reporting of centre and is
associated with dorsal brain activation [tk]. While the perception of
the line it's self, it could be argued, may also involve some ventral
stream perceptual processing, past research involving a related
perceptual task, the landmark task, suggests that the neglect-induced
bias observed in line bisection probably represents a relatively clear
indicator of a dorsal deficit within the disorder
[tklandmarklinebisectiondanckert]. The findings here strongly suggest
that, in at least some of the neglecting patients, prisms did appear to
bring about a shift in bisection toward the neglected field. Due to the
characteristics of the treatment and sample-size limitations, an
experimental design that would have eliminated possible practice-effects
was not possible. However, keeping in mind that limitation, it is the
pattern of response between this "dorsal" task and the other, more
perceptual, tasks that is most informative.

 The spatial working memory task, despite being
spatial in nature, is designed to test for the more ventrally-oriented
working memory deficits, and relies on stimuli in central and right
space, rather than left space, where spatial attention defects occur.
The locations of the targets need to not only be perceived, but recalled
again after a delay, and that delay putatively causes the task to rely
heavily on ventral, working memory systems [tk]. When the patients
performed the spatial working memory task after prism adaptation, they
did show statistically significant improvement as a group, but that
improvement, for the most part, would not be considered clinically
significant. That is to say that the change left all four neglecting
patients with large deficits relative to typical control performance,
with three of those four performing far outside of what would be
expected to be observed in that control population.

 Like the spatial working memory results, neglect
patients displayed severe deficits on the temporal estimation task.
While responses did seem to be influenced by the actual trial duration,
the five patients who showed clinical signs of neglect massively
underestimated the durations both before and after prisms. In this case,
it appears prisms had no measurable effect on the deficit.

 Neglect is a disorder arising from naturally varied brain
lesions, and which produces heterogeneous deficits that can range from
mild to severe and can recover over time in less than predictable
degrees. As a result, there are going to be limitations to what can be
inferred from treatment-effect studies like this when sample sizes are
necessarily small. However, here data are presented where prisms
produced significant and relatively reliable change in individuals with
neglect, and this data is paired with two other tasks which putatively
rely on different, ventral stream processing. These other two tasks
demonstrate continued deficits post prisms. This lack of clinically
relevant improvement fits the prediction that prisms, a task
demonstrated in the past to influence primarily dorsal brain regions,
would have minimal effects on the deficits of working memory and time
perception observed in neglect because they rely on putatively ventral
functions. The disassociation between these two sets of results lends
credence to the hypothesis presented earlier that neglect is a disorder
involving two independent systems, and that remediation of only one
system will have minimal effect on the deficits arising from the other.
More effective treatments will then necessarily need to induce changes
in the ventral perceptual system.

Can saccadic adaptation improve both action and perception?
===========================================================

The previous chapter demonstrates that prism adaptation fails to improve
performance on both spatial working memory and temporal estimation
tasks. This can be explained by the dorsal-ventral disassociation. These
tasks were chosen because of their perceptual nature. If prisms
influence dorsal stream functioning, and these tasks are dominantly
tests of ventral stream functioning, then it follows that these
specially chosen perceptual tasks will not be substantially remediated
by prisms in neglect [@Striemer2010].

Prism adaptation, by design, influences both visual and proprioceptive
frames of reference [@Redding2005]. In fact, depending on the specifics
of the adaptation protocol, the bulk of the influence of prisms can be
exclusively in the proprioceptive reference frame [@Redding2005]. The
protocol used in the previous chapter employed concurrent visual
feedback, where the participant is not prevented from seeing his hand
throughout the movement. This is likely to have lead to a predominantly
proprioceptive reference frame realignment, however, regardless of the
type of feedback, prism adaptation leads to a mix of proprioceptive and
visual, or perceptual, effects, the degree to which each of these is
present is contentious [@Redding2005, @Herlihey2012]..

 Another visuomotor adaptation
procedure, called saccadic adaptation, offers a potential alternative
approach to rehabilitating neglect that may overcome some of the
shortcomings of prism adaptation. This is because saccades straddle the
perceptual and motor systems in a highly unique way. Saccadic adaptation
is a form of sensory adaptation, because it changes input to the visual
system. At the same time saccadic adaptation is also motor adaptation,
as it is fundamentally the parameters of motor action execution, not
sensitivity, that is adapted. Unlike prisms, which shift the ocular
position of "straight ahead," realigning both visuomotor and
limb-proprioceptive reference frames, saccadic adaptation changes the
saccade motor plan, directly biasing eye movements, and thus providing a
different, and perhaps more direct way of influencing visual perceptual
representations.

There are other differences between the two tasks that may make saccadic
adaptation more useful rehabilitating in neglect. For example; unlike
other adaptive systems, saccades are unable make corrections in-flight
due to the lack of useful visual feedback throughout the duration of the
action [@Matin1982]. Therefore, they are, by nature, ballistic, relying
on error signals after each event to maintain highly accurate motor
plans. This may be valuable in neglect as patients tend toward slow,
laborious, pointing gestures, and prism adaptation benefits from faster,
more fluid movement [@Redding2005]

 Because of the
limitations of vision during eye movements, the saccadic system must
rely on errors to maintain precision [@Wong2010]. As a result, the
saccade accuracy can be maintained in the face of a wide range of
perturbations, from ocular muscle paresis or injury [@Kommerell1976] ,
weakness due to aging [@Kommerell1976], or the wearing of magnifying
glasses on one or both eyes [@Kommerell1976]. There exists a rich,
half-century of investigation into the saccadic adaptation system. Most
of it relying on a behavioural saccadic adaptation paradigm, developed
by @mclaughlin1967, that utilizes target perturbations presented during
saccades.

 Saccadic
adaptation involves the systemic perturbation of targets while the
participant is making eye movements. If perturbations are configured
such that saccades seem to over-shoot their target, then they become
shorter over time [@mclaughlin1967]. The same can be done to lengthen
saccades, though the mechanisms may be somewhat different [@Catz2008,
@Golla2008, @Hernandez2008, @Panouillères2009, @Panouillères2012].

 Saccadic adaptation operates in a retinocentric reference
frame. That is to say, the starting eye position is irrelevant, but only
the vector direction of the eye movement [@Catz2008, @Golla2008,
@Hernandez2008, @Panouillères2009, @Panouillères2012]. For example, if
rightward saccades of 10º are reduced by saccadic adaptation, other
similar rightward saccades will be hypometric, regardless of the eye or
head position. Congruent with a retinocentric vector-based
representation, adaptation of saccades of a given length will continue
to affect similar but not drastically different length saccades
[@Miller1981; @Frens1994; @Albano1996; @Straube1997], and horizontal and
vertical adaptation are also independent of one-another [@Watanabe2003].
Perhaps most indicative of a purely retinotopic reference frame,
adaptation of saccades of one direction do not influence saccades of the
opposite direction, regardless of spatial overlap
[@Deubel1986; @Frens1994; @Albano1996]. Inducing changes in a
retinocentric frame of reference could potentially influence a broader
range of behaviours important for both attention and the accurate
construction of perceptual representations.

 There is also several lines of research that indicate that
saccadic adaptation can influence perception. For example, @Mack1978
found that when a vertical gain was added to horizontal saccades by
perturbing targets upward, participants became desensitized to upward
motion and sensitized to downward motion. In other words, their
threshold for detecting upward motion was increased, and downward
motion, decreased [@Mack1978]. Perception of the spatial location of
targets presented before or during saccades can be biased by saccadic
adaptation [@Awater2005, @Georg2008, @Bruno2007, @Zimmermann2009]. And
the pre-saccadic attentional shift can also be influenced by saccadic
adaptation [@Dore-Mazars2005, @Collins2006]. It could be claimed that
the perceptual effects above occur only near saccades, but saccadic
adaptation can also induce biases in the perception of spatial extent in
the absence of eye movements [@Garaas2008], providing a good set of
converging evidence that saccadic adaptation can influence perception.

The current chapter sets out to examine the potential for saccadic
adaptation as a rehabilitative tool for neglect. However, the
application of saccadic adaptation in clinical research has not been
well established. Where it has, it has almost exclusively been with
disorders involving cerebellar degeneration, and not cortical disorders
like neglect. In one notable exception, saccadic adaptation was used to
improve reading speed and performance on a serial visual search task in
hemianopic patients [@Lvy-Bencheton2012]. It has also been successfully
used to improve reading ability in an elderly patient with an acquired
oculomotor apraxia and other degenerative disorders that caused gaze
abnormalities [@Desestret2013]. Despite the dearth of research, the
clinical application of saccadic adaptation on disorders like neglect is
under-examined.

Method
======

### Participants

A total of 46 individuals (33 female, 3 left hand dominant, age:
$mean=tk$, $sd=tk$), were recruited from the University of Waterloo
undergraduate student body through the Research Experiences Group.

### Apparatus and Procedure

Participants were seated with their head fixed in a chin-rest at a
distance of 42cm from a touch-screen computer monitor (ViewSonic 17",
Mass Multimedia "Surface Acoustic Wave Touchscreen"; refresh rate
120Hz). The participant was permitted to adjust the height of the
chin-rest for comfort. The Eyelink II (SR Research) head-mounted
eye-tracker was used monitor eye movements. During calibration, both
eyes were monitored, but afterwards only one eye was monitored during
the task. The eye-tracker sampled at 500Hz and raw eye-position data was
saved for later processing. All three computer tasks were programmed
using Python and Psychopy [@Peirce2006].

After eye-tracker calibration, the touchscreen was calibrated using the
manufacturer's calibration task, during which targets appeared at
various points on the screen and the participant was instructed to point
to them as they appeared. The landmark and line bisection tasks were
performed first, to measure baseline performance, and then up to four
blocks of of the three tasks (saccadic adaptation, bisection, and
landmark), each beginning with saccadic adaptation, were performed (10
participants opted to end the experiment after 3 blocks due to time
constraints). The order that the landmark and line-bisection tasks were
presented was randomized from one participant to the next, but remained
consistent from block to block.

#### Landmark and Line Bisection Tasks

Each trial of the line bisection task began with a black screen. The
participant was asked to place their finger on the keyboard space-bar.
While the key was depressed, after a jittered time interval
(approximately 0.5 seconds), a horizontal 25º (20cm) by 0.3º white bar
appeared on the screen. The line was always centred, but was vertically
jittered from trial to trial by up to 6.6º. When the line appeared, the
participant was instructed touch the bar where they perceived the
centre-most point was, as "quickly as possible." However, the line
remained on screen for 1700ms, or until a touch-response was registered
on the screen. In practice, this was more than sufficient time for even
the most careful participants. A blank screen replace the target line
and the participant was required to return their finger to the space-bar
in order to proceed to the next trial. A block of line bisection
consisted of 10 trials.

Each trial of the landmark task began with a red fixation mark 1.3º tall
by 0.3º that appeared near the centre of the screen (jittered vertically
by 6.6º from trial to trial). After 0.5 seconds, a horizontal, white bar
of the same dimensions as used with the line bisection task appeared
behind the red mark and remained on-screen for 1700ms. The red mark was
still clearly visible, and the participant was asked to indicate with
the computer arrow-keys whether the mark was to the right or left of the
centre of the white bar. The following trial, the tick mark would fall
slightly further from the end reported, changed in progressively smaller
steps from trial to trial (i.e., a staircase procedure). This allowed a
precise estimation of the subjective point of equality via a staircase
method using up to 20 trials (less if the staircase settled on a stable
response earlier). Again, the stimuli remained on screen until a
response was registered (see figure [fig:Landmark]).

TODO: Figure [fig:Landmark] goes about here. Diagrammatic depiction of
trial progression and full experimental sequence (two-panel).

#### Saccadic Adaptation

To the participant, saccadic adaptation appeared to involve visually
following a 2º black square as it appeared at various places around the
grey screen for a period of time (black-on-grey was chosen instead of
the white-on-black for the other two tasks because of the lingering
phosphorescence of the CRT screen when a white-on-black target
disappears). Their instructions were simply to follow the dots with your
eyes. Underlying this, however, were 100 trials involving central
fixation (250ms), followed by a target in the left half of the screen
(100ms, jittered by 50ms), then a target 300 (+-30)º to the right of the
previous one. When an eye-movement toward the second target was detected
(by passing a threshold of distance between the two), the target was
perturbed back toward the initial target by 30% (100º), simulating an
overshoot, and intended to reduce saccade amplitude over over time
(i.e., hypometria; see figure [fig:SA] for an overview). One in 5 trials
were "test trials," where the target was not perturbed, but simply
disappeared. These trials were intended to allow analysis of changes to
the saccade length induced by adaptation without the potential that the
saccade was somehow updated mid-flight to the new location.

TODO: Figure [fig:SA] goes about here. Diagrammatic depiction of
saccadic adaptation trial.

### Data Analysis

#### Landmark and Line Bisection Tasks

For line bisection trials, lateral bias of the touch-responses were
recorded with positive values indicating responses to the right of
true-centre. For each block, the first trial was removed to allow
acclimatization to the task, and the median value of the remaining nine
responses was used in the analysis. For the landmark task, the position
of the red mark relative to the centre of the line for each trial was
recorded, and the mean of the final 5 positions was used in the
analysis.

#### Saccadic Adaptation

After the first target of a saccadic adaptation trial was fixated, it
disappeared and the second target appeared. At this point, 500hz eye
position samples from the eye-tracker were recorded until the end of the
trial (approximately 2s). This allowed later analysis of the initial
saccade toward the second target, and any corrective saccades to the
perturbed location afterword. Rather than rely on the real-time saccade
detection executed by Eyelink's own program, an algorithm was developed
that matched human performance when viewing the eye-position data
graphically and manually identifying the precise start and finish of
each saccade. The eye position data contained a large amount of noise,
so determining the precise start and end of a saccade, which are needed
to produce reliable estimates of saccade length, and thus adaptive gain
effects, was critical to robust analysis.

Duplicate samples were removed and eye movement speed was then
calculated as the sample-to-sample position change (unsigned). This
speed data was smoothed by convolution with a "hanning" window (a
hanning window resembles a Gaussian distribution, but lacks the long
tails, so makes a good smoothing filter,
$w(n) = 0.5\; \left(1 - \cos \left ( \frac{2 \pi n}{N-1} \right) \right)$).
Saccades were detected by first convolving a "rolling maximum," with a
window of 10 speed samples. A rolling maximum was chosen instead of the
more commonly used average, as it accentuates sudden bursts of speed,
therefore making saccade detection easier. A saccade was defined as
regions where the rolling maximum met a threshold greater than the
median trial speed plus an experimentally determined parameter
(1500º/second). The analysis of a typical trial is presented graphically
in figure [fig:Saccade\_detection].

TODO: Figure [fig:Saccade\_detection] goes about here. Depicts the three
stages of detecting the saccades from a trial in panes.

Individual trials were then removed from the analysis if the data was
not of sufficient quality to calculate a reliable first-saccade length.
These criteria and parameters were determined by plotting randomly
selected trials from the data-set and comparing the algorithm's
selections with manual judgment. Trials were removed if there was more
total displacement during fixations than identified saccades (which
occurred when large but slow velocity drifts occurred during fixations).
They were also removed when there were more than two saccades in the
short window of a trial (3 or more saccades in a single trial usually
indicated erratic eye movements). Trials were also dropped if they
appeared to contain no saccades, or if a lack of eye position data from
the tracker resulted in large gaps or a low overall number of samples
(which can result from blinking). As a result, approximately half (56%)
of trials proved usable in the analysis.

The blocks were split up into approximate thirds, with the first third
of the first block considered as a pseudo-baseline, to be compared with
the final third of each of the blocks. Five participants were removed
from the analysis because they lacked a sufficient number of acceptable
trials per third (10) to make reliable calculations, on two or more of
the four blocks.

### Case Study

As a pilot experiment to examine the practical considerations and
potential viability of saccadic adaptation in unilateral neglect, a
single participant who had demonstrated symptoms of neglect was
recruited from the Neurological Patient Database (University of
Waterloo). The parameters of the task were eased in anticipation of the
needs of the participant. For the saccadic adaptation, the target was
larger (6x6º). The initial target was always to a target in the right
half of the screen (100 to 300º right of mid-line, 300º above or below
the horizon), rather than left as in the normative sample above. It was
followed, by a second target 300º left of this initial position. When a
leftward saccade was detected, this target was perturbed further
leftward, with the intent of simulating an undershoot, with the intent
of augmenting saccade length over time. A leftward increase in saccadic
gain was chosen based on the hypothesis that inducing leftward saccadic
bias may reduce the rightward attentional bias inherent in the disorder.
During the landmark task, the patient reported verbally rather than by
keyboard and, for both tasks, the stimuli remained on-screen as long as
required for a response.

Results
-------

### Saccadic Adaptation

 The experimental blocks of saccadic adaptation
were split up into thirds, and the first third of the first experimental
block was used as a pseudo-baseline to compare with the final thirds of
each of the blocks. The median saccade length of the test trials
belonging to that first third were subtracted from the medians of each
block's final third test trials. Because so many trials were removed for
poor data quality, many participant's had individual blocks lacking
sufficient test-trial data to perform this calculation. Out of the 41
participants, between 11 and 22 of them did not have at least 2
acceptable test trials (out of a maximum of 6) from which to calculate
adaptation. Nevertheless, one-sample t-tests of the remaining
participant blocks were used to determine whether the adaptation
paradigm had successfully shortened saccades, and 3 of 4 blocks showed
significant change from baseline (see table [tbl:Adaptation]).

 While test trials provide a measure of degree of
adaptation in the absence of any responses to target perturbations
mid-flight, the sparsity of data when using only these trials limits the
potential power and reliability of further statistical analysis.
Further, the average change in saccadic length (including all all
blocks) is -69%, which is more than double the actual target
perturbation (30%), and includes an exceptionally large 95% confidence
interval ranging from -100% to -7%. Alternatively, if all trials are
included instead of just test-trials, the overall mean saccadic change
is -18% (95% CI of (-0.22, -0.13)). This change represents 60% of the
perturbation distance, which is in line with the typical effect size
that has been found in the literature [tk]. Given this, the results
based on all trials, rather than just test trials, are taken to provide
a more reasonable measure of the effect, and is used in the remainder of
this analysis.

TODO: [tbl:Adaptation] goes about here. Data below:

### Landmark and Line bisection

 Participants did
not show any significant bias when responding on the line bisection task
pre-adaptation ($t( 48 ) = 0.62$, $\text{p} = 0.541$ ). In contrast,
performance on the landmark task indicated a rightward bias such that
participants placed the mark 0.24º (0.18cm) to the right of true centre
($t( 48) = 5.6$, $\text{p} < 0.01$). Such a rightward bias indicated
that participants perceived the left half of the line to be larger, as
has been shown in prior work [tk pseudo neglect ref]. Interestingly, all
participants performed very accurately on these two tasks, with the
worst performance still less than a centimetre from centre (0.8º and
1.0º for line bisection and landmark, respectively.) Performance on the
two tasks was not significantly correlated ($r = -0.2$, $t(47) = -1.57$,
$\text{p}=0.12$).

 To investigate the potential effect of
saccadic adaptation on landmark and line bisection, change scores were
computed from the initial, pre-adaptation sessions of the two tasks, to
the remaining post-adaptation sessions. One participant was excluded
from line bisection because they pointed to the end of the line, rather
than centre, after the first block. When the change scores were averaged
across blocks, neither line bisection, nor landmark task performance
showed evidence of change post-adaptation ( $t( 35 ) = -0.55$,
$\text{p} = 0.583$, and $t( 36 ) = -0.88$, $\text{p} = 0.384$
respectively ). Based on the sample variance and sample size, a power
analysis revealed that the experiment would have had a 95% chance of
detecting a post-adaptation change in the landmark task as small as 0.1º
(0.08cm, $n = 37$, $sd = 0.15$), less than half the pre-existing bias
and a change of 0.12º (0.09cm, $n = 36$, $sd = 0.14$) in line bisection.

The degree of adaptation varied from participant to participant, with a
few participants exhibiting mean saccadic change very close to zero. To
examine the influence of saccadic adaptation further, the above analysis
was repeated with only those participants demonstrating a strong
saccadic adaptation effect (The median saccadic gain, of -16%, was
chosen as the cut off). Again, landmark and line bisection change scores
were non-significant ( $t( 17) = -1.89$, $\text{p} = 0.076$, and
$t( 17 ) = -0.36$, $\text{p} = 0.726$ respectively). Note that while
this may appear to hint at the possibility of an effect of adaptation on
landmark performance, the near-criteria p-value seems to be contingent
on the precise cut-off for selecting the participants, so should not be
considered reliable.

Examination of the correlation between degree of adaptation and landmark
and line-bisection change post-prisms was also non-significant, though
landmark performance did approach significance ( $r = 0.29$,
$t(35) = 1.84$, $\text{p} = 0.07$, and $r = -0.06$, $t(34) = -0.39$,
$\text{p} = 0.7$ respectively )

### Case Study

 The neglect patient
made saccades normally to the first target in the adaptation task
(rightward), however, the patient was never able to acquire the second
target. After the first target disappeared, the patient always returned
to the centre of the screen, anticipating the central fixation which
would begin the next trial. The trial would time-out and the fixation
would then appear. After several unsuccessful attempts to verbally and
manually cue the patient to the second target in the sequence, the
experiment was discontinued.

Discussion
----------

In order to assess the impact of saccadic adaptation on landmark and
line bisection performance, it was critical to establish that
participants are, in fact, adapting saccade magnitudes. Performance on
the first third of the first session was used as a pseudo-baseline, as
very little, if any adaptation is expected in the first 30 trials of
saccadic adaptation [tk]. If this assumption is incorrect, this would
make identifying an effect more difficult.

The sparsity of test-trials in the saccadic adaptation paradigm raises
questions about the reliability of results derived from them. However,
regardless of whether just test-trials or all trials were used,
participants appeared to reliably shorten their saccades in each block
(table [tbl:Adaptation]). While the test-trial data set provides a clear
indication that adaptation was successful, it is not able to provide a
reliable estimate of magnitude, so that was calculated based on all
trials. When this was done, adaptation magnitude was typical of that
found in the literature.

Performance on landmark and line bisection was precise, and the
experiment was sensitive enough to detect the small pseudo-neglect
observed in healthy individuals in previous research [tk]. Saccadic
adaptation, however, did not produce a measurable change in landmark and
line bisection performance, even though the experiment had sufficient
statistical power to detect very small changes.

The case study made clear that special experimental considerations,
beyond what is typically made for prism adaptation, need to be made with
saccadic adaptation for the task to work with neglect patients. The
design of the stimuli used here was either insufficient in saliency, or
involved too large of a leftward saccade. Further research attempting
saccadic adaptation may require either a new experimental configuration,
or locating a patient who is only showing weak signs of neglect. These
potential constraints on saccadic adaptation highlight the relative ease
with which patients are able to perform prism adaptation. For practical
reasons, saccadic adaptation may not be suitable for rehabilitation of
neglect.

General Discussion
==================

 The inability to orient
spatial attention to left visual space has long been considered the
hallmark deficit of unilateral neglect [@Danckert2006]. As outlined
earlier, research has increasingly questioned the notion that this
particular deficit characterizes the primary, or even cardinal
characteristic of the disorder. The damage that often leads to neglect
happens to straddle the border between the two visual systems as they
differentiate dorsally and ventrally [@Danckert2010]. It is therefore
perfectly placed to not only interfere with both systems, but
potentially corrupt late-stage communication between the dorsal and
ventral streams, producing deficits that cannot be accounted for by
simplistic single-system, or single-domain, models.

In chapter 1, patients with neglect demonstrated complex deficits in
visual working memory. Namely, when compared with controls, they failed
to successfully recall and report the colour of stimuli after a delay.
They also mis-reported colours when asked to recall stimuli from a given
location, instead reporting colours of stimuli from other, competing,
locations (figure [fig:tk]). While the first appears to demonstrate a
simple deficit of visual working memory, the latter probably represents
a somewhat more complex problem of binding visual information (colour
and location) in working memory. The experiment also supports the notion
that these working memory deficits are not likely to be down-stream
effects of more basic spatial attention deficits. The severity of the
visual working memory deficits from one patient to the next did not
correlate with the magnitude of deficits observed on covert orienting,
but appeared to be relatively independent.

 Thus far, one of the most promising treatments for
rehabilitating neglect has been prism adaptation [tk]. The reason prism
adaptation has appeared so successful, however, may have been a result
of the fact that much of the research has been restricted to tests that
effectively measure deficits of spatial attention. Besides the popular
covert orienting task, researchers have often used clinical
paper-and-pencil tests such as object cancellation, figure drawing or
copying [@Wilson1987, tkmodernreview], tasks that are, by their very
nature, sensitive to an inability to orient to the left. Chapter 2
investigated whether or not prism adaptation would produce a measurable
effect on tasks thought to measure ventral-stream dependant processing
spatial working memory and temporal estimations tasks that would
presumably not be improved by remediation of spatial attention in the
dorsal stream, the apparent target of prisms [@Danckert2008,
@Clower1996]. The experiment replicated finding that prisms produced a
change in line bisection performance, a deficit that is likely driven,
at least in part, by an inability to orient leftward, though the effect
was far from clear-cut. However, when examining the deficits of spatial
working memory in right space, and temporal estimation, two tasks
presumably un-affected by deficits of leftward orienting, prisms
appeared to lack any significant rehabilitative function. Patients
demonstrated extreme deficits on these two tasks both before and after
prism adaptation (figure [fig:tk]).

 It was speculated that an alternative
treatment of neglect might be saccadic adaptation, a task not that
different from prism adaptation, but one that has been demonstrated to
produce subtle changes in perception for healthy individuals [@tk].
Chapter 3 began with an examination of healthy performance on the
landmark and line bisection tasks. The two tasks have been used before
in neglect research as they comprise largely similar perceptual
properties but likely rely heavily on distinct visual systems [@tk].
Healthy participants typically demonstrate very small biases, compared
with neglect patients, on these tasks. It was therefore suspected that
if saccadic adaptation produced changes in perception of spatial extent
and spatial attention, it may show up as small changes on the landmark
and line bisection tasks, respectively. Unfortunately, though the
participants demonstrated adequate saccadic adaptation, the effect did
not appear to influence either task. At the same time, a single case
study attempting saccadic adaptation in a neglect patient was
unsuccessful because the task demands proved too difficult.

The results of the first two chapters involved small groups of patients
with unilateral neglect. As with any research examining such restricted
population sizes, this limits the confidence that can be placed on the
external validity of the results. It cannot be realistically assumed
that such a small sample can exactly represent the population as a
whole. Further, the heterogeneity of unilateral neglect, both in terms
of the extent of brain damage, and in terms of the particular type and
severity of deficits, makes extrapolating from a small group
problematic. Further research with larger groups of patients are
required to verify the reliability and validity of the conclusions made
here.

 Saccadic adaptation failed to produce a measurable change
in landmark and line bisection results, but there are avenues left
unexplored in examining the possible reasons for this. First, most of
the perceptual after-effects that have been demonstrated post-saccadic
adaptation have been restricted to spatial illusions immediately before
or after saccades similar to those which were adapted [@Awater2005,
@Collins2006]. Longer lasting effects appear to be possible, but it may
require highly specific design elements empirically chosen to maximize
them. The types of parameters used are likely to be important, as
research has demonstrated that the type of saccade
[@Schraa-Tam2009,@Johnston2008,@Müri2008], or even the magnitude of the
adaptation direction [i.e., +- gain, @Catz2008, @Golla2008,
@Panouillères2012] can result in very different patterns of brain
activation. @Garaas2008 was able to identify long-lasting perceptual
effects of saccadic adaptation, but this involved developing a new,
whole-field adaptation protocol. Future attempts to change perceptual
biases with saccadic adaptation should consider these parameters,
especially the potential use of whole-field adaptation [@Garaas2008].

Beyond the type of adaptation used, it is possible that the landmark and
line bisection tasks were insufficiently sensitive to reliably measure
any effect of the adaptation procedure. Introducing a horizontal jitter
to the bisection stimuli may remove the participant's ability to rely on
the body mid-line as a reference point and may increase task difficulty,
and thus the sensitivity to any subtle biases, where they exist. It may
also prove fruitful to calibrate the length of the line to maximize
sensitivity to the participant's own spatial bias established at
baseline.

The saccadic adaptation case study demonstrated that the task demands of
visually following a rapidly perturbed target on a screen may be too
difficult to be a useful tool in rehabilitating patients suffering from
neglect. However, the parameters used here placed the second target
somewhat to the left of centre. Placing all targets completely in right
space may improve a patient's chance of successfully performing the
task. Further, increasing the salience of the targets, by, for example,
increasing their size, brightness, or flashing them at onset, may
improve the patient's ability to orient and saccade toward them. There
are also paradigms that utilize self-paced, voluntary saccades rather
than the reflexive saccades used here, and there is evidence that
adaptation of voluntary saccades may rely more heavily on cortical as
opposed to cerebellar, circuits [@Schraa-Tam2009, @Müri2008], which may
prove promising for the rehabilitation of unilateral neglect. Finally
the durations that targets remain on the screen should be carefully
calibrated to the particular abilities of the patient, again maximizing
their chances of completing the task and adapting to the direction and
magnitude of shift desired.

It remains possible that improved methodologies may enable neglect
patients to successfully undergo saccadic adaptation. However, the
results presented here do not, in any strong way, suggest that saccadic
adaptation appears to be a strong contender to replace prism adaptation
in the remediation of neglect. In practice, it appears that prism
adaptation more closely accommodates the abilities of neglect patients,
and the existing body of positive research makes turning away from
prisms appear to be a poor choice. Instead, future research should
remain considerate of the limitations of prism adaptation, and the
particular domains where they do and do-not appear to be effective.
Research should concentrate on combining other techniques with prisms to
more completely rehabilitate the disorder. For example, the working
memory results presented here demonstrate severely degraded abilities.
Considering the importance of working memory in self-care and everyday
functioning, it seems imperative that prism adaptation be supplemented
with some form of working memory training to maximize recovery.
