General Discussion 
=================

[Deficits in Neglect go beyond attention] The inability to orient
spatial attention to left visual space has long been considered
the hallmark deficit of unilateral neglect [@Danckert2006].  As
outlined earlier, research has increasingly questioned the notion
that this particular deficit characterizes the primary, or even
cardinal characteristic of the disorder. The damage that often
leads to neglect happens to straddle the border between the two
visual systems as they differentiate dorsally and ventrally
[@Striemer2010tpd].  It is therefore perfectly placed to not only
interfere with both systems, but potentially corrupt late-stage
communication between the dorsal and ventral streams, producing
deficits that cannot be accounted for by simplistic single-system,
or single-domain, models.


In Experiment 1, patients with neglect demonstrated complex deficits
in visual working memory. Namely, when compared with controls,
they failed to successfully recall and report the colour of
stimuli after a delay (Figure \ref{fig_VWM_1Target}). They also
mis-reported colours when asked to recall stimuli from a given
location, instead reporting colours of stimuli from other,
competing, locations (Figure \ref{fig_VWM_MTarget}).  While the
first deficit appears to demonstrate a simple problem of visual
working memory, the latter probably represents a somewhat more
complex problem of binding visual information (colour and
location) in working memory.  The experiment also supports the
notion that these working memory deficits are not likely to be
down-stream effects of more basic spatial attention deficits.  The
severity of the visual working memory deficits from one patient to
the next did not correlate with the magnitude of deficits observed
on covert orienting, but appeared to be relatively independent. 

The choice of colour as the characteristic to be remembered was
made in response to a possible challenge to previous findings of
spatial working memory deficits in neglect. Namely, that such
deficits may result from an inability to access attentional
resources for rehearsal of spatial locations [@Awh2001]. 
In the single square
condition, if rehearsal was utilized, it would primarily involve
rehearsal of information such as colour, rather than involving spatial
attention. Despite this, the working memory deficit was, indeed,
evident. As a result, the findings support the notion that 
working memory deficits observed in
neglect are not a direct consequence of attention deficits, and
are likely independently caused.

[Prisms are limited] Thus far, one of the most promising
treatments for rehabilitating neglect has been prism adaptation
[@Luaute2006].  The reason prism adaptation has appeared to be so
successful, however, may have been a result of the fact that much
of the research has been restricted to tests that effectively
measure deficits of spatial attention. Besides the popular covert
orienting task, researchers have often used clinical
paper-and-pencil tests such as object cancellation, figure drawing
or copying [@Wilson1987], tasks that are, by their very nature,
sensitive to an inability to orient to the left. Experiment 2
investigated whether or not prism adaptation would produce a
measurable effect on tasks thought to measure ventral-stream
dependant processing using spatial working memory and temporal
estimations tasks that would presumably not be improved by
remediation of spatial attention in the dorsal stream, the
apparent target of prisms [@Danckert2008; @Clower1996].  The
experiment replicated findings that prisms produced a change in
line bisection performance, a deficit that is likely driven, at
least in part, by an inability to orient leftward, though the
effect was far from clear-cut.  However, when examining the
deficits of spatial working memory in right space, and temporal
estimation, two tasks presumably un-affected by deficits of
leftward orienting, prisms appeared to lack any significant
rehabilitative function. Patients demonstrated extreme deficits
on these two tasks both before and after prism adaptation (Figure
\ref{fig_SWM} and \ref{fig_TE}).



[SA failed as a replacement. ] It was speculated that saccadic
adaptation may represent a viable alternative to prism adaptation
in the study and treatment of neglect. 
Although the task is not that different from prism
adaptation, it has been demonstrated to produce subtle changes in
perception for healthy individuals [@Mack1978; @Awater2005;
@Georg2008; @Bruno2007; @Zimmermann2009; @Dore-Mazars2005;
@Collins2006; @Garaas2011].  Experiment 3 examined performance of
healthy individuals on the landmark and line bisection tasks after
sessions of saccadic adaptation.  The two tasks comprise largely
similar perceptual properties but appear to rely on distinct
visual systems [@Striemer2010dpm].  Healthy participants
typically demonstrate very small biases, compared with neglect
patients, on these tasks. It was therefore suspected that if
saccadic adaptation produced changes in perception of spatial
extent and spatial attention, it may show up as small changes on
the landmark and line bisection tasks, respectively.
Unfortunately, though the participants demonstrated adequate
saccadic adaptation, the effect did not appear to influence either
task. 

The results of the first two experiments involved small groups of
patients with unilateral neglect.  As with any research examining
such restricted population sizes, this limits the confidence that
can be placed on the external validity of the results. It cannot
be realistically assumed that such a small sample can exactly
represent the population as a whole. Further, the heterogeneity of
unilateral neglect, both in terms of the extent of brain damage,
and in terms of the particular type and severity of deficits,
makes extrapolating from a small group problematic.  Further
research with larger groups of patients are required to verify the
reliability and validity of the conclusions made here. 

[SA healthy] Saccadic adaptation failed to produce a measurable
change in landmark and line bisection results, but there are
avenues left unexplored in examining the possible reasons for
this.  First, most of the perceptual after-effects that have been
demonstrated post-saccadic adaptation have been restricted to
spatial illusions immediately before or after saccades similar to
those which were adapted [@Awater2005; @Collins2006]. 

Longer
lasting effects appear to be possible, but it may require highly
specific design elements empirically chosen to maximize them.  The
types of parameters used are likely to be important, as research
has demonstrated that the type of saccade
[@Schraa-Tam2009; @Johnston2008; @Muri2008], or even the magnitude
of the adaptation direction [i.e., $\pm \text{gain}$; @Catz2008;
@Golla2008; @Panouilleres2012] can result in very different
patterns of brain activation. There are also paradigms that utilize self-paced, voluntary
saccades rather than the reflexive saccades used here, and there
is evidence that adaptation of voluntary saccades may rely more
heavily on cortical as opposed to cerebellar, circuits
[@Schraa-Tam2009; @Muri2008], which may prove promising for the
rehabilitation of unilateral neglect.  @Garaas2011 were able to
identify long-lasting perceptual effects of saccadic adaptation,
but this
involved developing a new, whole-field adaptation protocol. Future
attempts to change perceptual biases with saccadic adaptation
should consider these parameters and designs, especially the potential use of
whole-field adaptation [@Garaas2011].

Beyond the type of adaptation used, it is possible that the
landmark and line bisection tasks were insufficiently sensitive to
reliably measure any effect of the adaptation procedure.
Introducing a horizontal jitter to the bisection stimuli may 
remove the participant's ability to rely on the body mid-line as a
reference point and may increase task difficulty, and thus the
sensitivity to any subtle biases of healthy individuals. It may also
prove fruitful to calibrate the length of the line to maximize
sensitivity to the participant's own spatial bias established at
baseline. Utilization of a control group or condition, or a
positive control, where saccades are lengthened, may also prove
effective for identifying subtle changes in the two tasks without
the confound of practice effects or fatigue.

Future research should remain considerate of the
limitations of prism adaptation, and the particular domains where
they do and do-not appear to be effective. Research should
concentrate on combining other techniques with prisms to more
completely rehabilitate the disorder. For example, the working
memory results presented here demonstrate severely degraded
abilities. Considering the importance of working memory in
self-care and everyday functioning, it seems imperative that prism
adaptation be supplemented with some form of working memory
training to maximize recovery. 






