Unilateral spatial neglect is a disorder commonly resulting from
damage to the right inferior parietal or superior temporal cortex
[@Vallar1986, @Karnath2001, @Karnath2012, @Mort2003, @Buxbaum2004,
@Verdon2010].  Hereafter, specifically referred to simply as
"neglect," the disorder causes a heterogeneous collection of
deficits that can be generally categorized as an inability to
respond to information on the contralesional side of space. People
with the disorder are spatially biased away from contralesional
space in their search behaviour [@Husain2001, @Wojciulik2001],
grooming and eating [@Halligan2003, @Kerkhoff2001], drawing
[@Halligan1989], posture [@Rode1997], and perceptual judgment of
spatial extent [@Dijkerman2003, @Striemer2010dpm].  The disorder
is, as can be expected from the list of symptoms, debilitating,
and is associated with poor rehabilitative outcome [@Cassidy1998,
@Ringman2004].  Less than half of patents show improvements in the
weeks after a neglect inducing stroke, and a small minority fully
recover [@Farnè2004].

[Disorder of Spatial-attention] Most theoretical accounts of the
neglect syndrome describe it as either a deficit of the deployment
of spatial attention, or one of impaired awareness. More
specifically, either an inability to report, respond, or orient
attention toward stimuli in left space [@DriverMattingley1998
,@Halligan2003,@Heilman1993] , or a general loss of environmental
awareness that can at it's most extreme, cause a person to act as
if the entire contralesional half of their world has ceased to
exist [@Mesulam1981 ]. The spatial-attention based model does a
good job of explaining many of the deficits displayed on clinical
tests of neglect. For example, object cancellation (a variant of
the visual search task) and figure copying (a free-hand drawing
task) are believably influenced by the patient’s ability to deploy
attention across the page. Where attention cannot be directed,
mistakes or omissions are made. Even for something like the
line-bisection task – in which the patient is asked to place a
mark at the perceived midpoint of a horizontal line – an inability
to attend to an endpoint is a plausible explanation for impaired
performance [i.e., typically marks are placed a long way to the
right of true centre; @Wilson1987].

[disengage deficit account] Attentional accounts of neglect
typically invoke two kinds of impairment; first, an ipsilesional
bias such that attention is preferentially oriented toward right
space, and second, a reorienting deficit such that neglect
patients have difficulty disengaging attention from stimuli in
right space in order to reorient towards the left. Originally
associated with the related phenomenon of extinction -- the
failure to report a contralesional stimulus when presented
simultaneously with an ipsilesional stimulus -- the 'disengage
deficit' describes a general attentional "stickiness" where-by
rightward stimuli attract and capture attention to the exclusion
of leftward stimuli [for a review, see @Losier2001].  @Posner1984
used a covert orienting task in which participants must detect
peripheral targets that can be validly or invalidly cued [i.e.,
cue and target presented at the same or opposite locations
respectively; @Posner1980]. On this task, neglect patients are
disproportionately slower to respond to left sided targets
following a right sided cue -- as if they have trouble disengaging
from the cue when presented in right space.  Similarly, in a
visual search task, performance in contralateral space is driven
by the number of ipsilesional distractors [@EglinKnight1989]. This
coincides with a general body of research that supports the notion
that a crucial function of the right inferior parietal cortex is
to disengage attention from the current focus and reorient toward
a new, salient location [for a review, see @CorbettaShulman2002
and @CorbettaShulman2011].

[Prisms do lot's of things] Given the debilitating nature of the
disorder a broad range of rehabilitation protocols have been
attempted [for a review, see @Luaute2006]. Perhaps because of the
heterogeneity of the symptom profile in neglect, most
rehabilitation strategies have met with varied success
[@Danckert2006] . Both caloric stimulation, in which water, often
ice-cold, is injected into the patient's ear canal, and neck
muscle vibration, quickly orients the patient's torso, head, eyes,
and attention to the stimulated side, reducing several of the
behavioural deficits for a short time [~20 minutes;
@AdairHeilman2003 ,@Karnath1993,@Karnath1996,@Rubens1985].
Unfortunately, these exercises are aversive and their short-term
effects prevent them from being useful as treatments. A much more
promising rehabilitation technique based on prismatic glasses has
recently been shown to have broader, and more lasting effects in
neglect [@Rossetti1998, @Rossi1990]. When patients with neglect
are adapted to a rightward visual shift and the glasses removed,
the after-effects on several behavioural measures are profound,
and last considerably longer than the adaptation time [@Farnè2002
,@Frassinetti2002,@Pisella2002,@Rossetti1998].  Judgment of
straight-ahead and line bisection become closer to true centre
[@Danckert2006], object cancellation, and figure copying improves
[@Rossetti1998 ], exploratory eye movements demonstrate a
reduction in rightward bias [@Danckert2006,@Ferber2003], and even
visual imagery [@Rode2001], and posture [@Tilikete2001] are
improved by the technique.

[Failures of prisms] Despite the long list of behaviours prisms
have been shown to ameliorate, more recent randomized controlled
trials have failed to show prisms as an efficacious rehabilitation
treatment [@Nys2008, @Turton2010]. Additionally, when an effort is
made to examine attention and perception more directly, the
ameliorative effects seem to be somewhat less clear. Some direct
measures of attentional biases have been shown to be affected by
prisms, such as covert shifts of attention
[@Striemer2007,Nijboer2008], and extinction [@Serino2007], while
other, perhaps more realistic measures of attention, such as a
serial visual search task, have failed to show an effect
[@Morris2004]. Similarly, while several studies have shown that
prisms induce a shift in voluntarily eye movements towards
previously neglected space, perceptual judgments can remain just
as biased as before [@Dijkerman2003 ,@Ferber2003]. This appears to
be demonstrating a dissociation between occulomotor "looking" and
perceptual "seeing," with prisms restoring the former but not the
latter [@Striemer2010tpd].

[Speculation on action/perception disassociation in prisms] The
dissociation between after effects that influence actions and
those that influence perception invokes the dual visual pathways
hypothesis of Goodale and Milner [@Milner2006]. Information
from primary visual cortex (V1) projects to two streams, one
projecting to the superior, posterior parietal cortex that is
important for the visual guidance of action (the so-called dorsal
‘how’ pathway) and another that projects from V1 to inferotemporal
cortex and is important for perceptual processing [the so-called
ventral ‘what’ pathway; @Milner2006]. Prisms have been shown to
primarily influence processing within the dorsal stream [
@Luaute2006, @Corbetta2005, @Clower1996.  In this framework,
prisms will primarily influence behaviours supported by the the
superior parietal lobule and infraparietal sulcus, areas well
within the dorsal stream that are typically undamaged in neglect.
Instead, damage to the inferior parietal/superior temporal gyrus
leads not only to the neglect syndrome, but also severely reduces
(or even eliminates) the brain's ability to integrate dorsal and
ventral stream processing [@Striemer2010tpd]. In the same respect,
the damage limits the ability of a rehabilitative technique such
as prisms, that operates primarily on the dorsal stream,from
influencing areas in the ventral system responsible for higher
level perceptual judgments. This thesis outlines three experiments
(and a supplemental case study to the third experiment) chosen to
examine this duality between the reactive, motor action system,
and perceptual representation/awareness in neglect.

[Chapter overview] Chapter 1 explores the relationship between
visual working memory and spatial attention. It examines the
hypothesis that these two domains represent separate, but
interacting deficits in patients with neglect. Chapter 2 employs
prism adaptation in right brain damaged (RBD) participants to
explore the effects of prisms on two domains – spatial working
memory and temporal estimation – that are critical for developing
accurate perceptual representations of the world. This chapter
contributes to the growing evidence that prisms fail to influence
domains of processing important for the construction of perceptual
representations. Chapter 3 develops a procedure for using saccadic
adaptation to explore the possibility that modifying eye position
sense would lead to more generalized improvements in both action
and perception. This preliminary work was conducted in healthy
controls. Chapter 3 also includes data from a single case study of
a neglect patient undergoing the saccadic adaptation procedure.
The failures to adapt in this patient points to future directions
of research to address both volitional and reactive saccadic eye
movements.

[Conclude, summarize project] The evidence presented in this
thesis supports the notion that neglect is not *just* a disorder
of attention, but can be characterized by a failure to build
accurate perceptual representations of the world. Prisms appear to
have an effect on the spatial action systems, having such a strong
effect in part *because* of the lack of awareness
[@Striemer2010tpd]; however, they do not seem to change the
deficits of perceptual representation. Deficits of perceptual
representation, as well as being central to the disorder, also
represent a major contributor to the debilitating nature of
neglect. Concentrating on deficits of perceptual representation
has the potential of making substantial steps forward in
understanding the disorder and producing more effective
rehabilitation efforts.
