Discussion 
----------


In order to assess the impact of saccadic adaptation on landmark
and line bisection performance, it was critical to establish that
participants are, in fact, adapting saccade magnitudes.
Performance on the first third of the first session was used as a
pseudo-baseline, as very little, if any adaptation is expected in
the first 30 trials of saccadic adaptation [@Hopp2004]. If this
assumption is incorrect, this would only make identifying an
effect more difficult.

The sparsity of test-trials in the saccadic adaptation paradigm
raises questions about the reliability of results derived from
them. However, regardless of whether just test-trials or all
trials were used, participants appeared to reliably shorten their
saccades in each block (table \ref{fig_Adaptation}). While the
test-trial data set provides a clear indication that adaptation
was successful, it is not able to provide a reliable estimate of
magnitude, necessitating calculations based on all trials. When
this was done, adaptation magnitude was typical of that found in
the literature.

Performance on the landmark and line bisection tasks was precise,
and the experiment was sensitive enough to detect the small
pseudo-neglect observed in healthy individuals in previous
research [@Bowers1980; @Bradshaw1986; @Scarisbrick1987].  Saccadic
adaptation, however, did not produce a measurable change in
landmark or line bisection performance, even though the experiment
had sufficient statistical power to detect very small changes. 

The strict trial inclusion criteria was chosen to ensure
confidence that the resulting metrics were not influenced by
artifacts unrelated to the adaptation, however this results in
nearly half the trials being removed from the analysis. This makes
an estimate of adaptation size from test trials impossible, and so
it was calculated based on non-test trials as well. Because
non-test trials included the purturbed target, it's possible that
the target influenced the duration of the initial saccade, biasing
the adaptation effect calculation, though this should be
relatively uniform across participants and blocks, and thus fail
to influence the results. Future research should consider
combining higher frequency test trials and more liberal inclusion
critera. This approach may allow an entire analysis based on test
trials, eliminating the possiblity of introducing bias. 


