Can saccadic adaptation improve both action and perception?
===========================================================

The previous chapter failed to demonstrate the effectiveness of prism 
adaptation on improving both spatial working memory and temporal
estimation. This can be explained by the dorsal-ventral
disassociation, as these tasks were chosen because of their
perceptual nature. If prisms influence dorsal stream functioning,
and these tasks are dominantly tests of ventral stream
functioning, then it follows that these specially chosen
perceptual tasks will not be substantially remediated by prisms
[@Striemer2010tpd].

Prism adaptation, by design, influences both visual and
proprioceptive frames of reference [@Redding2005]. In fact,
depending on the specifics of the adaptation protocol, the bulk of
the influence of prisms can be exclusively in the proprioceptive
reference frame [@Redding2005]. The protocol used in the previous
chapter employed concurrent visual feedback, where the participant
is not prevented from seeing his hand throughout the movement.
This is likely to have led to a predominantly proprioceptive
reference frame realignment. Regardless of the type of feedback,
prism adaptation leads to a mix of proprioceptive and visual, or
perceptual, effects, and the degree to which each of these is
present is contentious [@Redding2005; @Herlihey2012].

[Saccadic adaptation as an alternative] Another visuomotor
adaptation procedure, called saccadic adaptation, -- a task that
changes saccade length by jumping targets forward or backward as a
saccade is made, inducing an artificial dysmetria
[@McLaughlin1967] -- offers a potential alternative approach to
rehabilitating neglect that may overcome some of the shortcomings
of prism adaptation. This is because saccades straddle the
perceptual and motor systems in a highly unique way.  Saccadic
adaptation is a form of sensory adaptation, because it changes
input to the visual system. At the same time saccadic adaptation
is also motor adaptation, as it is fundamentally the parameters of
motor action execution, not sensitivity, that is adapted. Unlike
prisms, which shift the ocular position of "straight ahead,"
realigning both visuomotor and limb-proprioceptive reference
frames, saccadic adaptation changes the saccade motor plan,
directly biasing eye movements, and thus providing a different,
and perhaps more direct way of influencing visual perceptual
representations.

There are other differences between the two tasks that may make
saccadic adaptation more useful as a rehabilitation tool in
neglect.  For example; unlike other adaptive systems, saccades are
unable to make corrections in-flight due to the lack of useful
visual feedback throughout the duration of the action [@Dodge1900;
@Mackay1970; @Campbell1978; @Volkmann1978; @Matin1982].
Therefore, they are, by nature, ballistic, relying on error
signals after each event to maintain highly accurate motor plans.
This may be valuable in neglect as patients tend toward slow,
laborious, pointing gestures, and prism adaptation benefits from
faster, more fluid movement [@Redding2005]

[Saccades adapt to a wide range of perturbations] Because of the
limitations of vision during eye movements, the saccadic system
must rely on errors to maintain precision [@Wong2010]. As a
result, saccade accuracy can be maintained in the face of a wide
range of perturbations, from ocular muscle paresis or injury
[@Kommerell1976] , weakness due to aging [@Kommerell1976], or the
wearing of magnifying glasses on one or both eyes
[@Kommerell1976]. There exists a rich, half-century of
investigation into the saccadic adaptation system, most of it
relying on a behavioural saccadic adaptation paradigm, developed
by @McLaughlin1967; that utilizes target perturbations presented
during saccades.

[describe saccade adaptation procedure and classic results]
Saccadic adaptation involves the systemic perturbation of targets
while the participant is making eye movements. If perturbations
are configured such that saccades seem to over-shoot their target,
then adapted saccades will become shorter over time
[@McLaughlin1967].  The same can be done to lengthen saccades,
though the mechanisms may be somewhat different [@Catz2008;
@Golla2008; @Hernandez2008; @Panouilleres2009; @Panouilleres2012;
@Hopp2004].

[Retinotopic] Saccadic adaptation operates in a retinocentric
reference frame. That is to say, the starting eye position is
irrelevant, with only the vector direction of the eye movement
being important [@Catz2008; @Golla2008; @Hernandez2008;
@Panouilleres2009; @Panouilleres2012]. For example, if rightward
saccades of 10$^\circ$ are reduced by saccadic adaptation, other similar
rightward saccades will be hypometric, regardless of the eye or
head position.  Congruent with a retinocentric vector-based
representation, adaptation of saccades of a given length will
continue to affect similar but not drastically different length
saccades [@Miller1981; @Frens1994; @Albano1996; @Straube1997], and
horizontal and vertical adaptation are also independent of
one-another [@Watanabe2003]. Perhaps most indicative of a purely
retinotopic reference frame, adaptation of saccades of one
direction does not influence saccades of the opposite direction,
regardless of spatial overlap [@Frens1994; @Albano1996].  Inducing
changes in a retinocentric frame of reference could potentially
influence a broader range of behaviours important for both
attention and the accurate construction of perceptual
representations.

[Perception] There are also several lines of research that
indicate that saccadic adaptation can influence perception. For
example; @Mack1978 found that when a vertical gain was added to
horizontal saccades by perturbing targets upward, participants
became desensitized to upward motion and sensitized to downward
motion.  In other words, their threshold for detecting upward
motion was increased, while thresholds for detecting downward
motion, decreased [@Mack1978].  Perception of the spatial location
of targets presented before or during saccades can be biased by
saccadic adaptation [@Awater2005; @Georg2008; @Bruno2007;
@Zimmermann2009], and the pre-saccadic attentional shift can also
be influenced [@Dore-Mazars2005; @Collins2006]. It could be
claimed that the perceptual effects above occur only near
saccades, but saccadic adaptation can also induce biases in the
perception of spatial extent in the absence of eye movements
[@Garaas2011], providing a good set of converging evidence that
saccadic adaptation can influence perception.

The current chapter sets out to examine the potential for saccadic
adaptation as a rehabilitative tool for neglect. However, the
application of saccadic adaptation in clinical research has not
been well established. Where it has, it has almost exclusively
been with disorders involving cerebellar degeneration, and not
cortical disorders like neglect. In one notable exception,
saccadic adaptation was used to improve reading speed and
performance on a serial visual search task in hemianopic patients
[@Lvy-Bencheton2012]. It has also been successfully used to
improve reading ability in an elderly patient with an acquired
oculomotor apraxia and other degenerative disorders that caused
gaze abnormalities [@Desestret2013]. Because of the dearth of
research, the clinical application of saccadic adaptation on
disorders like neglect is under-examined.

