Discussion
----------

[prisms influenced "dorsal"] As discussed above, prisms have
repeatedly been found to influence deficits putatively associated
with dorsal visual stream processing. Here, we replicate past
findings that prisms effect the bias present when neglect patients
perform the line bisection [@Rossetti1998; @Striemer2010dpm], a
task that involves a motoric reporting of centre and is associated
with dorsal brain activation [@Foxe2003; @Weiss2000; @Çiçek2009].
While the perception of the line it is self, it could be argued,
may also involve some ventral stream perceptual processing, past
research involving a related perceptual task, the landmark task,
suggests that the neglect-induced bias observed in line bisection
probably represents a relatively clear indicator of a dorsal
deficit within the disorder [@Striemer2010dpm]. The findings here
strongly suggest that, in at least some of the neglecting
patients, prisms did appear to bring about a shift in bisection
toward the neglected field. Due to the characteristics of the
treatment and sample-size limitations, an experimental design that
would have eliminated possible practice-effects was not possible.
However, keeping in mind that limitation, it is the pattern of
response between this "dorsal" task and the other, more
perceptual, tasks that is most informative.


[SWM not remediated] The spatial working memory task, despite
being spatial in nature, is designed to test for the  more
ventrally-oriented working memory deficits, and relies on stimuli
in central and right space, rather than left space, where spatial
attention defects predominate.  The locations of the targets need
to not only be perceived, but recalled again after a delay, and
that delay putatively causes the task to rely heavily on ventral,
working memory systems [@Ferber2006].  When the patients performed
the spatial working memory task after prism adaptation, they did
show statistically significant improvement as a group, but that
improvement, for the most part, would not be considered clinically
significant. That is to say that the change left all four
neglecting patients with large deficits relative to typical
control performance, with three of those four performing well
outside of what would be expected to be observed in the control
population.

[TE also not improved] Like the spatial working memory results,
neglect patients displayed severe deficits on the temporal
estimation task. While responses did seem to be influenced by the
actual trial duration (i.e., larger estimates made for longer
interval durations), the five patients who showed clinical signs
of neglect massively underestimated the durations both before and
after prisms. In this case, it appears prisms had no measurable
effect on the deficit.

[concluding] Neglect is a disorder arising from naturally varied
brain lesions, and which produces heterogeneous deficits that can
range from mild to severe and can recover over time in less than
predictable degrees. As a result, there are going to be
limitations to what can be inferred from treatment-effect studies
like this when sample sizes are necessarily small.  However, here
data are presented where prisms produced significant and
relatively reliable change in individuals with neglect, and this
data is paired with two other tasks which putatively rely on
different, ventral stream processing. These other two tasks
demonstrate continued deficits post prisms. This lack of
clinically relevant improvement fits the prediction that prisms, a
task demonstrated in the past to influence primarily dorsal brain
regions, would have minimal effects on the deficits of working
memory and time perception observed in neglect because they rely
on putatively ventral functions. The disassociation between these
two sets of results lends credence to the hypothesis presented
earlier that neglect is a disorder involving two independent
systems, and that remediation of only one system will have minimal
effect on the deficits arising from the other. More effective
treatments will then necessarily need to induce changes in the
ventral perceptual system.
