Method
======

### Participants

Nine patients with right
parietal damage who had shown clinical symptoms of neglect in previous
testing were recruited from the Neurological Patient Database (funded
through the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Ontario).  Two patients were
unable to return for the second phase of the experiment because of
extenuating circumstances, and a third participant was removed from the
study because of extensive cerebellar damage. The remaining six, (tk
male, tk female) patients completed the task. The group had a mean age
of tk (), and tk were right handed. The study was approved by the
relevant hospital and institutional ethics review boards. All patients
were tested at least tk months post-stroke.  One participant was not
able to perform the spatial working memory task (giving a single
response to all trials), and was therefore removed from that component
of the analysis.

TODO: Dig up age, handedness and gender and time-post-stroke on the
patients.

### Apparatus and Procedure

Patients
participated in at least two sessions. The two sessions were intended to
differ only in the presence or absence of prism adaptation. One patient
discontinued their first session due to fatigue but was able to complete
testing in a second session.

As in the previous chapter, patients were tested for symptoms of neglect
using four standard clinical measures. These were line bisection, figure
copying, and two cancellation tasks: "stars" and "bells". The four tasks
were completed during every session. Line bisection was also performed
twice during sessions involving prisms, before and after adaptation.
Coding and analysis of the tasks were performed in the same way as in
Chapter 1. The results of the clinical measures are depicted in table
tk.

#### Spatial Working Memory Task

The
spatial working memory (SWM) task is a similar, simpler relative of the
visual working memory task used in the last chapter (Ferber & Danckert,
2006). Patients were seated at a viewing distance of approximately 60
cm, with their head and body axes aligned (no chin-rest was used,
optical angles presented below are therefore approximate). The task was
programmed in Visual Basic Version 6.0 (Microsoft), and displayed on a
tk computer with a tk inch display. The task was the same as described
in @Ferber2006 and @Striemer2013. At the beginning of each trial,
patients fixated a red central cross. Once fixated, the experimenter
began the trial by depressing a key and the cross turned green. After 1
second, three targets were presented 2º to the right of fixation,
vertically aligned. The targets were squares subtending 1.5º, and could
appear in any of six positions, however, targets were always separated
from one-another by at least 2º.

The targets remained on-screen for 2 seconds which was followed by a
delay of 3 seconds. A probe stimulus (a circle of the same size as the
target squares) appeared at one of the 16 possible locations. The probe
remained on the screen until a response was entered via the keyboard
(figure tk). The patients were asked to remember the locations of the
target squares across the delay interval and then verbally report to the
experimenter whether or not the probe appeared in one of the locations
previously occupied by a target. A total of 120 trials constituted a
single session. In 50\% of trials, the circle appeared in the same
position as one of the preceding squares.

#### Temporal Estimation Task

The Temporal
Estimation (TE) task was displayed on the same computer as the SWM task,
but was programmed in E-Prime (Psychology Software Tools). As with the
SWM task, patients gave verbal responses, and the experimenter entered
those responses and controlled the task via the keyboard. The task was
the same as @Danckert2007. When a trial was initiated by the
experimenter, an illusory motion stimulus was presented that consisted
of eight open circles (each subtending 3.5º), arranged in a larger
circle around the centre of the screen (radius of 8º), with each circle
being filled, one at a time, in a clockwise direction (figure tk). This
created the illusion of a filled-circle moving around the outer circle.
Rather than a fixation, the centre of the screen periodically displayed
a number (numbers 1-9, presented for 300ms, 1.5º in size), which the
participant was asked to verbally report as they appeared. This
effectively maintained central fixation for the patients and provided a
check that participants were attending to the task. In addition, this
component was added to the task to prevent participants from sub-audibly
counting out the interval duration.

To avoid problems with responses, certain constraints were placed on the
appearance of the numbers. They would not appear less than 500ms from
the beginning or end of the trial, or another number. The interval
between numbers was also never more than 1500ms. At the conclusion of
the trial, the circles disappeared and the participant was asked to
indicate, verbally, the duration of the interval in whole seconds. The
intervals were randomly chosen from 5, 15, 30, and 60 seconds with 5
trials per duration.

### Data Analysis

As in chapter one, line
bisection bias was coded as a percentage of line-length, and star- and
bell-cancellation tasks, based on the percentage of left-side targets
that were omitted. All measures were computed pre- and post-prisms, and
where multiple sessions were performed, values were averaged (Table tk).

For the spatial working memory task, there were two trial types, those
where the probe appeared in the same location as one of the targets, and
those in which probes appeared in a non-target location. Based on the
two trial types, responses were categorized as true- and
false-positives, and true- and false-negatives (positive and negative
indicating the responses, and true and false indicating whether the
response was correct). A single sensitivity metric was calculated for
each patient, pre- and post-prisms, by subtracting false-positives from
true-positives (i.e., "hits" - "false alarms"). Normative performance in
healthy individuals from pre-existing research with this task was used
to provide context to these values.

The temporal estimation task analyzed the time interval estimates the
patients reported. For each patient, a mean of reported times was
calculated for each time interval, both for pre and post prisms data. An
ANOVA, and direct comparisons of the means for each time interval were
performed to examine the effect of prisms. In addition, linear models
were computed for each individual across the time intervals, and the
group mean slopes for pre and post prisms were compared.

Results
=======

### Spatial Working Memory Task

FIXME: add paragraph describing deficited performance.

As a group, SWM performance does statistically improve when a one-sided
test is used (presuming prisms would not decrease performance,
$t(4)=2.67$, $\text{p} < 0.05$). When consulting figure tk, it becomes
obvious, however, that there is not a consistently large improvement
across all patients, and even those who did improve did not demonstrate
performance in the range observed in healthy individuals (figure tk).
Patient 27, who did not show evidence of neglect on any of the clinical
measures, performed well within the range observed in healthy, and
non-neglecting right brain damaged patients in the past. All four
patients showing clinical signs of neglect still showed large deficits
post-prisms, compared with the performance of non-neglecting right brain
damaged patients previously examined on this test (z-scores between 3.4
and 7.2). When compared with performance of neurologically intact
controls (the lighter region in figure tk), patient 171 does cross into
a region statistically indistinguishable from normative performance
($z=1.2$), but the others remain well outside ($3.1 < z < 5.0$).

### Temporal Estimation Task

As can be
observed in figure tk, the five patients who showed clinical signs of
neglect massively underestimated the time intervals (Patient 27
underestimated to some degree pre-prisms, and responded very accurately
post-prisms. tk). As a result, analysis was done both with and without
including Patient 27, and results did not differ. What is presented here
is the data excluding patient 27. An analysis of variance performed,
with both prisms and trial duration included as fixed factors, did not
identify a significant effect of prisms, or an interaction involving
prisms (table tk). While trial duration produced a significant effect on
response magnitudes, the theoretical importance is negligible. Because
of this, an alternative analysis using ANCOVA, with trial duration as a
covariate was employed, and, even here, there was no indication of an
effect of prisms ($F(1,4)= 0.79$, $\text{p}=0.4$).

### Line bisection

As a group, the
neglecting patients showed a significant change in line bisection bias
after prism adaptation in the direction traditionally seen in the
research, provided a one-sided test is used (patient 27 removed,
$t(4)=2.6$, $\text{p} = 0.03$). Individual t tests on the sets of line
bisections for each patient demonstrated a relatively consistent effect
across individuals (see table tk).  All patients showed significant
change post prisms except 163 and 408 (with the latter not quite
reaching significance due to extreme trial-to-trial variability).  As
can be seen in figure tk, the changes were universally leftward except
for patient 27, the non-neglecting patient.

TODO: Add error bars to figure.

TODO: Create table of individual t tests.

As a group, the neglecting patients did not improve on either bell ($t(4)=0.6$, $\text{p}=0.5$),
or star cancellation ($t(4)=1.7$, $\text{p}=0.2$), and, as can be seen in table (tk clinical
results table), only one patient showed improvement on figure copying
(Patient 171).


