Results
-------

### Spatial Working Memory Task

In congruence with previous research using this spatial working
memory task [@Ferber2006, @Striemer2013], all of the patients who
were showing clinical signs of neglect performed very poorly.
Figure [fig:SWM] plots the patient mean "hits minus false alarms"
metric along with expected range (2 standard deviations from the
means) of the neurologically intact and non-neglecting right brain
damaged participants from @Ferber2006. While the patient who did
not demonstrating neglect on the clinical tasks at time of testing
(27) performed similar to the non-neglecting data, the
remainder's baseline performance was at least 3 standard
deviations outside what was observed in either group.

TODO: Figure [fig:SWM] goes about here. Depicts pre and post-prism
SWM performance for all participants, with normative regions.

As a group, SWM performance does statistically improve when a
one-sided test is used (presuming prisms would not decrease
performance, $t(4)=2.67$, $\text{p} < 0.05$). When consulting
figure [fig:SWM], it becomes obvious, however, that there is not a
consistently large improvement across all patients, and even those
who did improve did not demonstrate performance in the range
expected from healthy individuals (figure [fig:SWM]). All four
patients showing clinical signs of neglect still showed large
deficits post-prisms, compared with the performance of
non-neglecting right brain damaged patients previously examined on
this test (z-scores between 3.4 and 7.2). When compared with
performance of the more variable, neurologically intact
right-brain damaged individuals (the lighter region in figure
[fig:SWM]), patient 171 does cross into a region statistically
indistinguishable from normative performance ($z=1.2$), but the
others remain well outside ($3.1 < z < 5.0$).

### Temporal Estimation Task

As can be observed in figure [fig:TE], the five patients who
showed clinical signs of neglect massively underestimated the time
intervals (Patient 27 underestimated to some degree pre-prisms,
and responded very accurately post-prisms). As a result, analysis
was done both with and without including Patient 27, and results
did not differ. What is presented here is the data excluding
patient 27. An analysis of covariance was performed, with prism
condition as a fixed factor and trial duration as a random
covariate, and there was no indication of an influence of prisms
on time interval reporting ($F(1,4)= 0.79$, $\text{p}=0.4$).

For each participant and condition, a linear model (least squares)
was computed in order to yield a measure of the relationship
(slope) between time interval and reports. As can be seen in
figure [fig:TE], the relationship was not recti-linear (first
order), so linear models were computed based on log-transformed
time. When this was done, linear models fit very well (13 models,
$r^2$: first quartile =0.80, median =0.87, third quartile =0.92).
The worst case model was, nevertheless, still significant
($F(1,14)=12.4$, $\text{p}< 0.01$, $r^2=0.47$), indicating that
despite their poor performance, patients' responses were, in fact,
reliably influenced by the true trial intervals.

TODO: Figure [fig:TE] goes about here. Figure depicts both
line-plots of reported interval vs. true interval, and barplots
that more clearly depict performance change pre- to post prisms
(slope of log-time). 

### Line bisection

As a group, the neglecting patients showed a significant change in
line bisection bias after prism adaptation in the direction
traditionally seen in the research, when a one-sided test is used
(patient 27 removed, $t(4)=2.6$, $\text{p} = 0.03$).  Individual t
tests on the sets of line bisections for each patient demonstrated
a relatively consistent effect across individuals. As can be seen
in figure [fig:LB_Prisms], the changes were nearly-universally
leftward excepting patient 27, the non-neglecting patient.


TODO: Figure [fig:LB_Prisms] goes about here. Figure caption will
include all of the individual t-tests and differences on the plot
will be indicated with stars. All patients showed significant
change post prisms except 163 and 408 (with the latter not quite
reaching significance due to extreme trial-to-trial variability). 


As a group, the neglecting patients did not improve on either bell
($t(4)=0.6$, $\text{p}=0.5$), or star cancellation ($t(4)=1.7$,
$\text{p}=0.2$), and, as can be seen in table [tbl:Prisms], only
one patient showed improvement on figure copying (Patient 171).
