Discussion
----------

[VWM single] The response precision data indicates that the
patients were able to perform the basic task of indicating a
colour to a similar degree of proficiency as the two control
groups, demonstrating that basic perceptual representations were
intact, and that they are able to perform the motor response as
effectively as controls when they are able to recall the correct
visual information (Figure [fig.VWM_Precision]). In contrast, when
examining the apparent reliability of patient recollections, the
data appears to indicate that neglect patients fail to recall the
colour of targets and respond in a way that indicates more
prevalent guessing (Figure [fig.VWM_1Target]).



[VWM multi-target intro] When participants were asked to perform the
same VWM task in the presence of distractors, two things change:
there is an increase in memory load, as patients are asked to
remember more items, and some of that information must be
associated, as patients must now bind colours and locations
[@Wheeler2002].  That is, in addition to remembering more than a
single colour, patients needed to remember the relative spatial
arrangement of those colours in order to answer correctly.  As a
result, two types of errors can be committed. A failure to recall
a colour (a guess), or a mis-identification of one of the
distractors as belonging to the indicated spatial position
(incorrect target response). 


[VWM Multiple -guessing results] 
Interestingly, in contrast to the single target condition, the
patient group does not appear to guess more frequently than the
other groups when presented with multiple targets (Figure
[fig.VWM_MTarget]).  This may reflect a limited sensitivity in
this task variant, as in the multi-target condition, binding
errors appear to be the overwhelming source of failures. While the
single-target condition is effectively tuned to detect guessing
(as that is the only type of error possible), the multi-target
conditions simply provides less opportunity to detect guessing,
both in terms of space on the colour bar that results in coding a
response as a guess, and in terms of response frequency, given the
three possible outcome probabilities.

Additionally, it should not be automatically discounted that a
difference in the healthy control groups might account for the
failure to identify group differences in guessing in the
multi-target condition. The control groups perform almost
perfectly on the single target condition, but fell away from this
"ceiling" somewhat on the multi-target condition. The difference
between neglect and healthy performance may simply be more
accentuated when the task is calibrated such that healthy
performance is near perfect and not highly variable.


[VWM Multiple -mis-binding] Patients were more likely to select
non-targets in multi-target conditions (Figure [fig.VWM_MTarget]).
There are many potential explanations for this, the most obvious
being an increase in failures of binding colour and location in
working memory, a cross-domain cognitive process that has been
shown degraded in parietal and neglect patients (@Humphreys2009,
@Pisella2004).  When more than one target is presented, colour
information must be explicitly associated with spatial location in
memory.  If all of the colours are effectively encoded and
recalled, but a failure to bind the colours to spatial location
occurs, participants will select a distractor colour 50\% of the
time in the two-target condition, and 66\% of the time in the
three-target condition. 

The other event that can lead to this type of error is a simple
failure to recall the complete set of stimuli colours. If the
target colour cannot be recalled, but others can, it is possible
the participant may be inclined to select one of the distractor
colours, or something close to it, by strategy or cognitive
anchoring. This experiment is not able to clearly disambiguate the
two causes.  However, if the large deficit observed here was
caused by patients forgetting target colours, then it seems likely
that such frequent recall failures would have also lead to a
similarly large increase in the amount of guessing. As guessing
did not appear to increase in this condition, binding errors are
the more likely culprit.

[COVAT] The data also brings to light some potential difficulties
with the covert orienting task in the study of neglect. The three
most severely neglecting patients did show striking deficits of
leftward orienting, but, the task was not able to quantify
performance. It is possible that more salient or less eccentric
stimuli would have permitted *some* leftward orienting and thus
calculation of cueing effects. The remaining patients do not
demonstrate clear alignment with the severity of clinical results,
but, considering that others have found covert orienting to be a
reliable indicator of neglect symptoms [@Posner1984, @Morrow1988,
@Losier2001], task constraints may be responsible. For example,
the two, short, stimulus onset timings were chosen prevent the
need for eye movement monitoring (i.e., at 150ms SOA, targets
appear before eye movement could be initiated), but this may have
limited the experiments sensitivity for measuring cue effect
sizes. Also, patients were asked to perform only 100 trials to
avoid undue fatigue, but this may have limited the power of the
experiment, as other research has utilized considerably more [e.g.,
@Posner1984, @Morrow1988, @Danckert1997].




[Comparison of tasks] While a reliable statistical comparison of
the two tasks was made impossible by the inability of several
participants to complete the task, there is some information that
may be gleaned from what remains, and provide hints toward further
research. The two patients with strikingly poor ability to
re-orient leftward did not stand out as being particularly
degraded on either visual working memory or clinical measures of
neglect. In fact, one of them did not show clinical neglect at
all. This should serve as a cautionary note, hinting that it is
may be possible for some individuals to exhibit strong leftward
covert orienting biases in the absence of symptoms on clinical
measures of neglect, or visual working memory deficits. 

[Heterogeneity of neglect means within-subject is better] Despite
the fact that 8 patients with neglect were recruited for this
study, as can be seen from the results, there are several issues
with making strong claims about group differences. Most notably,
neglect patients are a highly heterogeneous group, with widely
varying degrees of deficits, and different relationships between
the deficits. Clinical measures such as those used here may not be
sensitive enough, or cover enough domains of performance, to
detect deficits still present in the individual.  Further
research, would benefit from within-subject designs, such as
before-and-after certain treatments, or longitudinally, as
patients recover. Such designs would avoid some of the problems
inherent in group-wise comparisons hamstrung by the heterogeneity
of the disorder.  The clinical symptoms, covert orienting
deficits, and visual working memory deficits examined here may
emerge from damage to un-related or weakly-linked domains of the
neglect disorder, but further research with larger sample sizes,
preferably making use of repeated measures designs, are needed to
explore this further.

Most rehabilitation techniques implemented in neglect focus on
remediating the attention deficits. If these attention deficits
are indeed distinct from the working memory impairments discussed
here and elsewhere (e.g., @Husain2001, @Danckert2006,
@Striemer2013), then this rehabilitation strategy will fail to
address this domain, and may leave patients with untreated
symptoms.  The next chapter addresses this question by examining
the effects of a prominent rehabilitation technique on
non-attentional biases.
