# Exploring the relationship between visual working memory and attention in neglect.

As already discussed, most of the traditional models of neglect describe
the deficits as being of spatial attention. A disorder driven by a
disengagement deficit, or difficulty with disengaging attention away
from right-space stimuli [Posner1984], an attentional stickiness that
results from disruption the inferior parietal cortex -a region seemingly
responsible for effective attentional disengagement and re-orienting
[@Corbetta2002].  This anchoring of neglect as an attentional disorder,
however, colours performance deficits observed with other tasks. Tasks
which are not direct measures of attention, and for which performance
may be degraded for other reasons.  For example, lateralized performance
on object cancellation tasks could be couched as an effect of the
spatial attention deficit, however, the revisiting behaviours observed
on the "good" side of the page [@Husain2001,@Patron2006] may indicate
something more nuanced is occurring. Even erasing, rather than crossing
off the targets, eliminating their ability to capture attention,
improves but does not eliminate neglect performance on the task
[@Mark2012].  FIXME:wording of that last sentence.

In fact, a great deal of research over the past few decades has
highlighted aspects of neglect that clearly go beyond spatially
lateralized deficits of attention. Beyond spatial attention, other
attentional mechanisms appear to be involved in neglect. Neglect
patients tend to have difficulties with sustained attention
[@Robertson1995], even when operating in a non-spatial modality like
auditory sustained attention [@Roberson1997].  Attentional blink, a
measure of temporal, selective attention is another non-spatial deficit.
When presented with two sequential letters, Neglect patients presented
an extended attentional blink, requiring up to three times as much time
between them in order to identify both correctly [@Husain1997].  In
addition to these non-lateralized attention deficits, recent work has
highlighted deficits of spatial working memory for stimuli in central or
right, putatively non-neglected space
[@Husain2001,@Danckert2006,@Malhotra2005,@Striemer2013].

FIXME: Above paragraph is extremely dense. Should I unpack?

Non-lateralized selective attention and sustained attention are strongly
correlated with both neglect severity, and recovery over time
[@Husain2003]. Further, remediation of these non-spatial deficits can
improve spatial neglect symptoms [@Robertson1995].  This has lead some
to go so far as to speculate that the non-spatial deficits are the
driving factor behind the persistence and clinical relevance of neglect
[@Husain2003]. In other words, a bias in spatial attention is overcome
by the brain's adaptive mechanisms, *unless* it is accompanied by other
deficits of attentional deployment that prevent the brain from
recognizing the errors. More conservatively, these recent discoveries
indicate that, despite the fact that lateralized attentional deficits
seem to represent a cornerstone feature of the neglect syndrome, they,
alone, fail to compose a complete picture of the disorder.



Furthermore, recent attempts at rehabilitating neglect have shown that
while spatial attention can be improved, a range of perceptual biases
remain unaltered. As noted earlier, several aversive and invasive
treatments intended to trigger attentional re-orienting to left space
have been tried, with little clinical effectiveness. The most promising
treatment has been prism adaptation, because of it's non-aversive
nature, and because it has been shown to produce effects lasting much
longer than the treatment duration [tk]. Unfortunately, while prism
adaptation produces striking changes in spatial attention [tk], there is
a small, but increasing set of neglect deficits that are not improved
[tk]. Many of these could be described as perceptual tasks, like
deficits on the landmark task [tk], and facial-emotion judgment [tk].
It may be the case then that prisms operate on neural systems important
for the deployment of attention, but have little to no effect on those
mechanisms needed to form accurate perceptual representations.

Part of the deficit involved in maintaining accurate perceptual
representations may be driven by working memory impairments.  As
mentioned earlier, neglect patients have deficits of spatial working
memory, even in "non-neglected" right or central space [tk]. 

FIXME: I can either expand this^ paragraph to describe Suzanne's SWM
task, or merge it with the one below.

In this context, it's important to consider the relationship between
spatial working memory and spatial attention. The two systems appear to
be independent and functionally unique, generally residing in ventral
and dorsal visual systems, respectively, but involve some functional
overlap and mutual interaction [@Awh2001].  Specifically, in healthy
people, mechanisms of spatial attention provide a rehearsal-like function
to maintain working memory [@Awh2001]. This arguably creates three
possible causes of the working memory problems in neglect. First, they
could be a direct result of spatial attention deficits. This seems
less-likely as patient's maintain the ability to orient to rightward and
central targets effectively, however, we can't rule out possible
subtlety pathological orienting in this space. If this was the case,
though, we might expect perceptual deficits to improve when the
attention deficits have been treated, which they don't appear to [tk].
Second, the ability to utilize spatial attention for rehearsal has been
disrupted by a dorsal-ventral disconnect arising from the
neglect-inducing lesion. This would imply that ventral processing may
not be directly impaired by neglect, but the spatial working memory
deficit comes from the ventral system's inability to recruit attentional
mechanisms to support spatial working memory. Third, the working memory
deficits may be independent of the spatial attention deficits. Neglect
may produce deficits in both systems, independent of one-another. 


To test this possibility, a new version of the working memory task was
created to minimize the possible reliance on spatial attention rehearsal
mechanisms. Rather than asking participants to remember and recall the
spatial locations of targets, memory for target colour was tested. By
placing the primary requirement of the task on colour processing, not
only is spatial attention less likely to be required, any  sort of
rehearsal mechanism is most likely going to reside in the ventral stream,
eliminating the likelihood that the measured deficits would be the
result of the hypothesized dorsal-ventral disconnect. With a model of
independent working memory deficits in neglect, it is expected that such
colour, or "visual working memory" deficits be present in much the same
way as the aforementioned spatial working memory deficits, and their
severity would likely also be independent of the severity of spatial
working memory deficits when comparing individuals. 


